The goal was only his fourth in his Liverpool career.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/internationals/6947786.stm
McClaren said of the 29-year-old: "Unfortunately Jamie stayed with the decision to not be involved with us."  And McClaren also conceded that it was "a blow" that injured striker Wayne Rooney faces a two-month lay-off.  However, Michael Owen and David Beckham are set to be involved in the friendly against Germany on 22 August.  Rooney will miss England's crucial Euro 2008 qualifiers against Israel and Russia in September after suffering a hairline fracture of his left foot.  McClaren added: "Obviously it's a blow because he was looking so fit and well in pre-season. He's a very important player for England.  "I was disappointed on Sunday when I got the call but on Monday we had to move on. We've dealt without him before and we'll have to do so again.  "We've still got Peter Crouch and the likes of Darren Bent, Andy Johnson, Jermain Defoe and David Nugent."  McClaren said: "I spoke to Owen on Tuesday after he played and he was very buoyant. He's got a few more days training and he will be available at the weekend.  "We have quite a few players in that position - the most important thing is the qualifiers when Michael Owen, Owen Hargreaves, David Beckham will be in better shape."  McClaren is also hopeful that former England captain Beckham will be involved against the Germans, despite only managing 37 minutes of action since joining up with his new club Los Angeles Galaxy.  "We've got to assess that over next few days," added McClaren. "He will be in the squad and I want him to play a part on Wednesday.  "We're keeping in close contact to see his condition. Of course, we would like him to join us on Monday. I spoke to him last week and he is desperate to play for England so it's just a case of getting him fit."  Skipper John Terry should be back from his knee injury for September's competitive games but is likely to miss the Wembley date with Germany.  His absence, along with injuries to Ledley King and Jonathan Woodgate, prompted McClaren to make a concerted attempt to try to convince Carragher to reverse his decision to turn his back on his country.  Carragher, who has been capped 34 times for England, has said he does not want to be a bit-part player on the international scene.  The centre-half has been a key figure in the Liverpool side that has reached the Champions League final in two of the last three seasons.  But at international level he has found opportunities hard to come by, with Terry and Rio Ferdinand now firmly established as McClaren's first choices.  Carragher was omitted from England's last game, a Euro 2008 qualifier in Estonia, and expressed his frustration at his place in the national team's pecking order.  McClaren said he would not "close the door" on Carragher returning in the future, while also admitted there is a chance Pompey defender Sol Campbell could be recalled.  The coach said Manchester City full-back Micah Richards could be used as an emergency centre-half.