When Bangladesh defeated South Africa in the 2007 World Cup, thousands of people celebrated into the night on the streets of Dhaka despite there being a ban on public gatherings at the time.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport3/cwc2003/hi/newsid_2570000/newsid_2573000/2573035.stm
Bangladesh are on the worst losing run in the history of one-day cricket, hardly the perfect preparation for the World Cup.  It is almost four years since their last win - the shock victory over Pakistan at the 1999 World Cup.  They have suffered 25 defeats over four years, a world record that surpasses the one they established in losing their first 22 matches between 1986 and 1998.  In that period they have lost to each of the nine other sides that compete in Test cricket.  It is a sorry state of affairs and Bangladesh's place as the 10th Test-playing nation at cricket's top table has been seriously questioned.  For as well as their woeful one-day record, Bangladesh have yet to win a Test match in 17 outings.  Their present run of eight successive losses is also a record for the longer version of the game.  "We still have a long way to go and need to work hard and concentrate harder to reach that kind of level.  "But otherwise the morale in the side is fine and the discipline is excellent, which is very important."  He is the third coach to occupy the post since Gordon Greenidge was sacked on the morning of that famous victory over Pakistan.  The West Indian was replaced by South African Eddie Barlow, a man held in high esteem in his adopted country before he left the post after suffering a brain haemorrhage.  Australian Trevor Chappell subsequently oversaw a relative downturn in the team's fortunes before he was, in turn, replaced by Kamal.  Never once in the run of defeats he has watched over has Kamal's team looked like winning.  A highest score of 226 was easily surpassed by Sri Lanka and would not have been enough in any of the 13 matches they have played over the last year.  And Bangladesh's bowlers are seemingly incapable of exerting any kind of authority over opponents.  However, a new losing streak is sure to start in the very next match and it remains to be seen how long it will last.