I hope I have a long career with lots more victories".
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/motorsport/formula_one/3177693.stm
Fernando Alonso became the youngest ever winner in Formula One as he stormed to victory in the Hungarian Grand Prix.  The 22-year-old Spaniard secured Renault's first victory of the season, and their first for 20 years, to confirm his potential as a future world champion.  But behind him the enthralling battle for this season's driver's title became more intense, with only two points now separating the top three.  Kimi Raikkonen, nine points adrift of Michael Schumacher beforehand, finished second in his McLaren to move within two points of the defending champion.  Juan Pablo Montoya drove his Williams into third place to move only a point behind, surviving a scare when his tyres locked up near the end.  Schumacher endured a traumatic race, allowing himself to be passed by Montoya and brother Ralf on lap 30 before suffering the indignity of being lapped by Alonso.  Alonso led for virtually the entire 70 laps at the Hungaroring after starting on pole, getting away to a great start and swiftly putting distance between himself and the rest.  The Spaniard surged to a 12-second lead after only six laps and came in for his first pit stop on lap 13 with a 21-second advantage.  After briefly surrendering the lead to Raikkonen, Alonso returned to the front after the first round of stops, establishing a 25-second lead over the Finn by lap 25.  By the time he pitted for a second time, the 22-year-old was able to emerge in front as the rest jostled for position behind him.  Ralf Schumacher, who started on the front row of the grid, came off at the second turn and was forced to rejoin the race in last place.  But the German quickly regained ground and capped a superb drive through the field by taking fourth place.  David Coulthard, adopting the same two-stop strategy that served him so well in Germany, brought the other McLaren home in fifth place.  A miserable day for Ferrari was compounded as Rubens Barrichello suffered a severe mechanical failure  The Brazilian, running fifth at the time, was forced out on lap 19 after his left rear suspension failed at 170mph, the wheel shearing off and bouncing down the side of the track.  "I was a passenger," Barrichello said. "I just had to break hard and hope. Thank God I am walking and I am OK."  Zsolt Baumgartner, the first Hungarian to drive in a grand prix after replacing the injured Ralph Firman, retired on the 36th lap with a blown engine.  Jacques Villeneuve's miserable season in the BAR-Honda continued with another early departure after a loss of hydraulic pressure.