The Panthers also won the Challenge Cup for the second time in three seasons, defeating the Cardiff Devils 8–7 on aggregate in the final.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/other_sports/1200926.stm
Newcastle Jesters face a winner-takes-all clash with Nottingham Panthers on Sunday night to decide who will clinch the final place in the Sekonda Superleague play-offs.  The Jesters triumphed 4-3 in overtime over the Scottish Eagles in Ayr on Saturday.  Panthers will travel to the Telewest Arena knowing they have to win the game in regulation to claim the vital eighth place and leave Newcastle propping up the table.  That is a feat they have not achieved away from home all season in the league.  Jesters, on the other hand, now need just a point after claiming only their third league success in 20 matches in Ayr.  The two teams traded goals through the opening 30 minutes as Jan Mikel and Tony Hand equalised powerplay markers from Jesters' Corey Lyons and Santeri Immonen.  Ed Courtenay then put Eagles in front late in the second period.  But veteran defenceman Rob Wilson turned hero for Newcastle by first netting the equaliser to force the overtime where he then grabbed the winner on the powerplay.  Belfast Giants' defiance of the current foot-and-mouth crisis, by order of league chiefs, led to them suffering a 6-5 overtime defeat to Cardiff Devils.  Despite a ninth successive 7,000-plus crowd, it looked in vain as Belfast trailed 5-1 with 13 minutes remaining.  Ivan Matulik, Steve Thornton, Alan Schuler and a brace from Marco Poulsen comfortably cancelled out Paxton Schulte's opener.  Giants then staged a remarkable comeback as Colin Ward, Rod Stevens (powerplay), Jason Bowen and Kevin Riehl forced overtime.  But Poulsen completed his hat-trick two minutes into the extra period to deny the Giants.  Bracknell Bees made it a six-game sweep of Manchester this season with victory over Storm, who crashed to their seventh successive defeat at Amen Corner.  The in-form Bees' victory was kickstarted after just 34 seconds by Joe Ciccarello, only for a Barrie Moore brace - his second on the powerplay - to give Storm the lead.  And after Rob Trumbley had netted an equalising marker on the powerplay, Reid Simonten, Blake Knox and Jamie Mansoff completed the scoring.