By October 2003 Hart's insurers had paid out over £22&#160;million.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/2119335.stm
The daughter of a train driver killed in the Selby rail disaster has opened a new training school in his honour.  John Weddle, 47, died in a collision with a freight train after being derailed by motorist Gary Hart - jailed for five years for causing death by dangerous driving.  On Wednesday Mr Weddle's daughter Stephanie, 16, unveilled a plaque, which named the new school after her father.  Mr Weddle who was killed in the disaster in February 2001.  Mr Weddle, a father-of-two from Throckley, near Newcastle, had worked on the railways for 26 years.  Mr Weddle's sister Janice was also at the ceremony at Newcastle Central Station.  Stephanie said: "It means a lot to us all that my father's 26 years working on the trains will be remembered.  "We will always remember him, but this means his colleagues and friends can also remember him."  GNER spokesman Phil Bustard told BBC News Online: "We are paying tribute to a colleague by naming our train drivers' training school in his memory.  "He gave great service to the railways, which is a very close-knit community, and he will be badly missed by his colleagues."  He said Mr Weddle was a very keen musician, and was a member of the Hank Marvin Appreciation Society.  The memorial plaque, situated between platforms three and four, will feature the crest of a guitar as well as GNER's logo.  Mr Bustard said the training school would be vital for the future of the service with many of the 300 drivers on the East Coast Main Line approaching retirement.  He said: "We need about 50 or 60 new drivers in the coming years, and this will be the ideal centre to train them.  "It takes a year to train a driver, which includes acquiring extensive route knowledge, as well as safety and other training."  The new driver training school will include computer simulations of the route.  Ten people died in the Selby rail crash, which happened near the village of Great Heck, North Yorkshire, on 28 February, 2001.