He was given the post later that day.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/a/aston_villa/2154265.stm
Aston Villa completed a superb comeback to overturn a 2-0 first-leg deficit against FC Zurich and book their place in the semi-finals of the Intertoto Cup.  New signing Michael Boulding made the breakthrough on 32 minutes, with Swedish World Cup striker Marcus Allback crowning his debut with the goal that levelled the aggregate scores.  But it was old campaigner Steve Staunton who notched Villa's third on 77 minutes to send Graham Taylor's side through.  Taylor gave Allback his debut as he rang the changes from the side beaten 2-0 in the first leg.  Left out were Dion Dublin, Alan Wright and Steve Stone, while George Boateng, linked with a move to Middlesbrough, was not even incluved on the substitutes' bench.  In came Olof Mellberg, Steve Staunton, Ian Taylor and Lee Hendrie for his first start since Taylor's first match as manager in February.  Zurich were without Ursal Yasar, scorer of the second goal in the first leg, through suspension after his red card late in the game.  Villa's first chance fell to Boulding, signed from Grimsby, who lofted his shot over the bar after being played through by Allback.  The big Swede then forced Miroslav Konig to tip over a looping header, while Peter Crouch then sent a header straight at the Slovakian international keeper.  With the cushion of a 2-0 lead, Zurich were content to sit back and hit Villa on the break.  The Swiss side looked desperate at times at the back.  But it was Mellberg who was left breathing a sigh of relief when he brought Alhassane Keitas down on the edge of the penalty area and saw Luca Iodice fire the free-kick over.  Villa got the breakthrough they needed on 32 minutes when Boulding cut the deficit in half. The former tennis professional earned a free-kick when he was brought down by Alain Nef, and when Gareth Barry's attempt was nodded across goal by Peter Crouch, Boulding forced the ball home. Villa keeper Peter Enckelman was forced to make a good save from Raimondi, but it was generally one-way traffic. Paul Merson was introduced as a half-time substitute and made an impact within four minutes, setting up Villa's second goal. He sent a delightful chip into the patch of Allback who volleyed his first goal for Villa to level the scores on aggregate. Allback showed good skills to work himself a shooting space, only to lob gently into Konig's hand while at the other end, Enkelman easily collected a shot from Chihab on a rare Zurich raid. Villa completed their comeback when Staunton headed in Hitzlperger's cross to make it 3-0 on the day, and 3-2 on aggregate.