Lawrence and Whitehead both signed new contracts in August 2006.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_div_3/3750811.stm
Chances flowed in an open game, with Andy Booth heading just wide early on, while Mansfield's Colin Larkin had a late goal controversially ruled out.  Larkin also missed a header, while Terriers' Danny Schofield was denied by a great tackle by Tom Curtis.  Tony Carss, Anthony Lloyd and Laurent D'Jaffo all had chances in extra time.  The striker beat Stags keeper Kevin Pilkington to a Lloyd cross, but saw his header drop just wide of the target.  Liam Lawrence also had a shot saved for the Terriers, while Mansfield's Bobby Hassell saw a shot go wide.  Huddersfield posed the greater attacking threat in the opening period, however, with Schofield forcing a save from Pilkington on 24 minutes.  Lawrence saw a shot deflected over, and Pawel Abbott drove a close-range effort straight into the grateful Pilkington.  Abbott was guilty of delaying a pass through to Andy Holdsworth just one minute later, as another promising attack broke down.  Mansfield's Adam Eaton had a chance inside the box late in the half, but dragged a shot well wide from a promising position.  Abbott found himself on the receiving end as he slid into Pilkington chasing a 50/50 ball at the start of the second half, but was able to continue after treatment.  Huddersfield continued to press and Schofield nearly scored a wonder goal on 54 minutes jinking into the box but being denied by a great tackle from Eaton.  The game had opened up and play flowed from end-to-end - yet both sides struggled to find the killer pass.  But there was a certain amount of needle creeping in, with Mansfield's Eaton and Sodje both booked for clumsy challenges.  Huddersfield continued to press, and Booth saw a header saved before Schofield had a great opportunity.  Lloyd's mis-hit shot came to the midfielder, but Curtis hurled himself in to make a goal-saving block.  Mansfield came equally close on 76 minutes, when Wayne Corden's incisive left-wing cross caused chaos and Larkin missed the ball as he attempted a header.  At the other end, Booth broke clear but his attempted chip with his weaker left foot drifted disappointingly wide.  Corden forced a diving save from Terriers keeper Paul Rachubka in the final minute with a great long-range effort - then Larkin had a goal chalked off when it was ruled D'Jaffo's cross had gone out.  Carss had a great shot for Huddersfield four minutes into extra-time, curling a 25-yarder inches wide.  D'Jaffo headed wide for Mansfield and Corden forced another save from Rachubka, but still neither side could break through.  Pilkington then produced one of the saves of the season in the 106th minute, brilliantly tipping Lloyd's curler around the post.  But neither side could break the deadlock, and Huddersfield's Lee Fowler knocked in the decisive penalty as Corden and Lawrence missed for the Stags.