However, the bid fell through when the Red Knights refused to meet the Glazers' valuation of the club.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/3754598.stm
Late on Monday, Mr Glazer spent £17m ($31m) on boosting his holding in the famous football club to 27.63%, the latest purchase raises that to 28.11%.  The buy, confirmed by his banking advisor JP Morgan, could mean he is seeking to take control of the club.  If his stake does hit the 30% mark, it would trigger a full takeover bid.  Under UK takeover law, anyone who owns a 30% stake in a company is obliged to make an offer for the rest of the company at the price at which they bought their last tranche of shares.  Shares in the Premiership club closed 1.5p down at 283.5p following news of Mr Glazer's purchase.  Mr Glazer snapped up his latest tranche of shares at a price of 285p a share - or a total of £3.6m.  The move comes after the Tampa Bay Buccaneers owner splashed out £45m ($81m) on Friday to buy 15.4 million shares.  Mr Glazer's latest share purchase puts him within touching distance of Irish businessmen John Magnier and JP McManus, who own 28.9% of the club through their Cubic Expression investment vehicle.  News of Mr Glazer's latest share purchase has not gone down well with Manchester United supporters groups who have spent the last fortnight campaigning fiercely against him taking over the club.  Members of the influential Shareholders United (SU) group also believe the volatility in the share price caused by Glazer's actions is destabilising and contributing to the "siege mentality" at Old Trafford.  "This affair cannot but be damaging to the business of the company and harmful to the interests of Shareholders United members as well as other shareholders in the company," SU chairman Nick Towle said.  In an open letter to Manchester United chief executive David Gill, they have asked him to tell the London Stock Exchange's Takeover Panel to order Mr Glazer to clarify his intentions.  If instructed to do so by the club, the Takeover Panel could impose a deadline on Mr Glazer to make a formal bid. If Mr Glazer could not meet this deadline, he would be prevented from making another offer for six months.  What remains uncertain is the position of Mr Magnier and Mr McManus, and whether Mr Glazer can persuade them to back any takeover he makes.  Talks between the two sides broke down on Friday.