The store was closed for approximately six months.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/4755893.stm
The decision effectively quashes planning permission for the £40m development at Sprucefield.  Mr Justice Girvan said he was not ruling on the merits of the application but the way the decision was reached.  In a statement, John Lewis said it remained committed to opening a store at Sprucefield.  The government said it was disappointed with the judgement and would be looking carefully at it.  The court's ruling on Wednesday leaves the way open for a further planning application to be made.  Traders from Belfast, Lisburn and Craigavon sought a judicial review of the decision to grant planning permission, taken by former environment minister Lord Rooker.  The retailer was given the go-ahead in June 2005 against the advice of Planning Service officials.  John Lewis said: "We will now work with the developers to explore every opportunity to finally realise our plans for this £40m investment, which would deliver approximately 900 jobs for local people.  "We already have a strong tradition of customers from the province visiting our other department stores and shopping online, and we remain committed to providing them with a John Lewis at Sprucefield as soon as possible."  Lagan Valley DUP assembly member Edwin Poots said the decision was "not only damaging to Lisburn but it is damaging to Northern Ireland Plc".  "The Northern Ireland economy cannot afford to drive away opportunities like this," he said.  Lisburn SDLP councillor Brian Heading said: "The question has to be asked: 'where else can we expect to get another 1,000 jobs?'"  Ulster Unionist assembly member Billy Bell said the decision was "probably inevitable after the failure of Lord Rooker to consult widely enough".  "It is vital that the government convene a round-table conference now on this matter because we cannot afford to see 900 jobs lost to the City of Lisburn and the surrounding towns," he said.  However, Belfast City Council said it welcomed the decision and was keen to meet John Lewis to discuss alternative sites for its store.  The Federation of Small Businesses said they were pleased with "the only sensible decision that could be made in the interests of small traders".  The chairman of the federation's Belfast branch, Harry McGimpsey, said: "The development of out of town shopping centres has crippled many long-standing small businesses in communities throughout Northern Ireland."  The Northern Ireland Independent Retailers' Association also welcomed the decision, describing it as "a victory for common sense".  Spokesman Bryan Gray said: "We are not against John Lewis opening a store in Northern Ireland, nor are we remotely against competition.  "What we are against is a mall of 30 stores at the Sprucefield site which runs directly against government policy, will have a drastic effect on both Lisburn and Belfast city centre trade, and drive countless independent retailers out of business."  John Lewis said that the store would create up to 1,000 jobs and be open by Christmas 2007.  The company had made it clear it would not consider any other site in Northern Ireland and would look at offers it had received from Dublin if the move was reversed.  Belfast City Council and the Chamber of Trade and Commerce combined to mount the joint challenge to the planning approval, as have Lisburn Chamber of Commerce and the city's Bow Street Mall.  The other challengers are Central Craigavon Ltd., and Multi Development, the Dutch company behind the £300m Victoria Square project in Belfast.  BBC Northern Ireland business editor James Kerr said the store was to be part of a "major expansion of the Sprucefield retail park".