Three of the six in the initial line-up (Menhenick, Cartwight and Hammond) were taken from Ruby Flipper.
www.bbc.co.uk/totp2/trivia/legs_and_co/lulu_cartwright/page6.shtml
Legs and Co were on betweem 1976 and 1981. There was quite a radical shift in music that was popular, such as the punk era. How did Legs and Co cope with that? Was the music more difficult to dance too?    Lulu: Yes. When we came out of the disco era, which was very easy for us, and went into the electronic, new romantic, punk stuff it did become more difficult. But it also made it more interesting. But at the same time we also got more technology in the studio with cameras doing different effects, so we managed to combine technology with the dancing. We did a couple of Sex Pistols songs which was quite fun. They weren't allowed on the programme so we put wigs on and stuck our tongues out which was about as rude as we could be. I think it was good for us that the music was changing because it challenged us.       Did it make it seem less like a job for you at this point?    Lulu: It never really seemed like a job. It was a great way of life, doing what we loved and getting paid for it. When the music fashion changed it stretched us a bit more, which is good.       Ruth once said that she was very surprised by how well behaved you were.    Lulu: I don't think she was there when we weren't well behaved.      Surely there was a temptation to wreak havoc at any opportunity.    Lulu: No. I don't think we wanted to wreak havoc. We weren't particularly badly behaved. We went out clubbing and stayed up all night but nobody really misbehaved. We just had a good time.      Legs and Co wound down in 1981. How did that feel?      Lulu: Having just taken out a mortgage it came as a bit of a shock.      Was it a shock decision? Did they announce it beforehand?    Lulu: Yes. We had a couple of months' notice. We were quite sad about it. Looking back on it, it probably was the right thing as the all girls image had had its day. We'd set up quite a good following by then, so we thought that we won't carry on doing Top of the Pops anymore but it'll give us an opportunity to do stuff that we wanted to do rather than be dictated to by the music industry. We saw it more as a challenge. We carried on for four years, doing cabaret and other shows. We managed to do trips away, including Egypt and the Middle East.     