Bunton became engaged to Jones on 23 January 2011.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/low/entertainment/2774437.stm
The social occasion was thought to be the first time all five members of the girl group had been together since Geri Halliwell left in 1998.  Halliwell, Melanie Brown, Melanie Chisholm, Emma Bunton and Victoria Beckham dominated British pop music in the late 1990s, becoming the UK's most successful all-female group.  But Halliwell left at the peak of their success, and the remaining four have not recorded together since 2000.  It was confirmed the five met at the "Beckingham Palace" home of Victoria and David Beckham in Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire, on Monday night.  "They did meet but it was a social occasion, not about getting back together," a spokeswoman for Beckham said.  She added it was "nonsense" to think they were going to get back together as they were all working on solo projects.  "Victoria has signed a new deal, Emma has apparently signed a new deal. Geri is working on other things and it is just madness to say that they are getting back together," added the spokeswoman.  Debut hit Wannabe reached number one in July 1996, as did their following five singles.  Their nicknames - Ginger, Scary, Sporty, Baby and Posh - helped them become household names, and they adopted the term "girl power".  Although the remaining four members never formally split up, reports of bad feeling between them have been widespread.  The first to leave, Geri Halliwell, has had the most success as a solo artist, with hits including 1999's Look At Me and 2000's Bag It Up.  A turbulent personal life has also kept her in the spotlight - including a brief, highly-publicised fling with TV presenter Chris Evans.  Melanie Chisholm played the V99 music festival as she attempted to branch out into a rockier sound, and enjoyed success with her album Northern Star. Its follow-up, Reason, is due for release on 10 March.  But the other three Spice Girls have enjoyed only limited success in their solo careers.  Emma Bunton scored a hit singing on Tin Tin Out's cover version of Edie Brickell's What I Am in 1999, but her album A Girl Like Me sold poorly and she lost a contract with Virgin Records.  Ironically, she is now being managed by 19 Management, the firm set up by Simon Fuller, who put the group together, only to find himself sacked as manager in 1997.  Victoria Beckham is now better known as the wife of England footballer David than for her solo career.  She parted company with Virgin Records after her eponymous debut album sold poorly but has signed a new deal with another label.