Aldershot Town entered administration on 2 May 2013.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/21526719
Aldershot have sacked manager Dean Holdsworth after two years in charge.  The Shots have earned just seven points from the last seven games and are 20th in League Two - the same position as when he took over in January 2011.  Aldershot beat Torquay 1-0 on Tuesday and his dismissal comes just three days after his brother, David, left his position as Lincoln City boss.  The club say they hope to announce his replacement before Saturday's game with Fleetwood.  Former Brentford, Wimbledon and Bolton striker Holdsworth, 44, started his managerial career at Redbridge in the Isthmian League. He was named Newport manager in 2008 and left them to take over the Shots in January 2011.  He led the Hampshire side from 20th on his arrival to 14th by the end of the season. Last season they finished 11th, six points off the play-offs, but he leaves them just two points above the relegation zone.  A club statement read: "Following a difficult run of results which has returned just seven points from the last seven games and despite Tuesday evening's hard-fought result against Torquay United the board of directors have today taken the decision to terminate the contract of first-team manager Dean Holdsworth with immediate effect.  "The board would like to place on record their thanks and appreciation for Dean's efforts during his time at the club and acknowledge the difficult circumstances under which Dean has managed to steer us out of the relegation places.  "Taking into account our current league position and games in hand of those teams around us, the board felt the time was right to maximise the positive momentum of Tuesday's result in order to give the best possible chance of retaining our League status.  "With this in mind and just 13 games left of the season we must now move quickly and make every effort to find a suitable replacement that can help us achieve those immediate ambitions."