With Vettel winning the race, he secured second in the standings, with Barrichello finishing third in the championship with 77 points.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/motorsport/formula_one/8146728.stm
Rubens Barrichello angrily accused his own Brawn GP team of costing him vital points at the German Grand Prix. The Brazilian led in the first part of the race and held the team responsible for him eventually finishing sixth. "It was a good show from the team of how to lose a race," he said. "I did all I had to do, I was first to the first corner. They made me lose it." Brawn boss Ross Brawn was unmoved, saying: "When he looks at the facts, he'll realise we weren't quick enough." However, speaking later after a meeting with the team, Barrichello refused to back down and said they had apologised to him. "I have spoken to the team and the view is quite the same," he said. "There was a mistake in both of our pit-stops and we lost a lot of time in a race where we struggled to get temperature in the tyres. I want to understand the whole picture, what he thought, what he said and we will then deal with it internally    "We would have finished third. I didn't say that I was going to win the race, I meant that I lost a lot of points and I was extremely frustrated, especially as I am fighting for a championship." The veteran Brazilian is still looking for his first win of the season, while team-mate Jenson Button has taken the chequered flag six times. And while Button leads the drivers' championship by 21 points following his fifth place in Germany, Barrichello was leapfrogged by Red Bull drivers Sebastian Vettel and Mark Webber and now sits fourth. Brawn opted for a three-stop strategy for Button and Barrichello at the Nurburgring, but the Brazilian's race was disrupted by a problem with the fuel hose during his second stop. "I feel sorry for myself and I feel sorry for the team," said the Brazilian. "To be very honest with you I wish I could get on the plane and go home right now. I don't want to talk to anybody in the team because I don't want to understand, there will be a lot of 'blah blah blah' and I don't want to hear that. Why is everyone moaning about Reubino? It is perfectly OK to criticise and show some emotion    "I am not saying that the team are favouring anyone, I am just saying that it was a good show of how to lose a race today." He said later: "The team agreed they basically had a problem and apologised for that. "It's not my intention to get into a fight with the team as I want to win the championship, so now I need to put my head down and work. "At the end of the day I can quit at the end of the year if I want to but now I want to get on with racing." After the Spanish Grand Prix earlier in the season, Barrichello threatened to walk out on Brawn if he discovered they were favouring Button. Barrichello had also led that race going into the first corner, but lost out to Button, who was switched to a two-stop strategy. In his later interview on Sunday, Barrichello denied his experience at Ferrari had made him insecure. He left before the end of his contract after becoming exasperated at not being able to race team-mate Michael Schumacher. Brawn was technical director of Ferrari at the time. "A lot of my past is related to what happened with Michael and Ross," he said. "People have that in mind and that is why they support me as it was wrong what was done to me in the past, but right now the only thing I've said is that we showed how to lose a race." Brawn refused to criticise Barrichello for Sunday's outburst and said he sympathised with his driver's frustration. "Rubens has a point, in that it wasn't a great race for us. We probably tried too hard to compensate for a lack of performance. "We tried three stops and then we had a fuel rig problem and his radio wasn't great in the race. He was struggling with it so the normal briefings from us... he wasn't getting all the information. He didn't really have a full picture of everything that was going on. "I think when he sits down and looks at the numbers he'll realise we were too slow to win the race. We just weren't quick enough. Now he has the facts and he understands what happened, he's fine. "Rubens had the 11th fastest time of the race, you can't win a race with that speed." Brawn said he would listen to Barrichello's interview again before deciding whether to take the matter further. "I'll understand the whole situation first. I want to understand the whole picture, what he thought, what he said and we will then deal with it internally. "Rubens has been a very important member of the team and he has stuck with us through very some difficult times, he has a lot of loyalty to the team and that is not something you destroy with a few frustrated words after a race." Speaking on the BBC's F1 forum after the race, Williams boss Frank Williams described Barrichello's outburst as "a bit of a red card job" but he said it would not be enough for him to sack a driver. "It's a very unusual thing for a driver to say," he said. "In his defence, he was very hot and bothered, having just stepped out of the car and maybe his judgement deserted him for a few moments. "I would swallow my pride, have a wee word and try to make him think differently - but it couldn't be tolerated again. "He'd certainly get a severe dressing down, but that's all."     