He resigned on 19 August 2007 due to the pressures of the job, and because he believed it to be the correct decision for him and his family.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/32678064
Inverness Caledonian Thistle manager John Hughes hailed the "fantastic achievement" of clinching third place and European football next season.  The 1-0 win over Dundee at Dens Park ensured the Highlanders have qualified for the Europa League, the first time in their history they will play in continental competition.  "Absolutely outstanding, first time in the history of the club that we are going to Europe so we're looking forward to it," Hughes told BBC Scotland.  "I'm grateful and thankful that we put it to bed today so that lets us concentrate on the cup final.  "We've got two games to go and we owe it to every other team still to keep battling away and we'll do that as there's cup final places up for grabs, but it is a fantastic achievement for everyone concerned at the club."  The sole goal from Edward Ofere's header after eight minutes was enough to seal the three points, with Greg Stewart and James McPake both going close for the home side.  "When we're at it we play some lovely lovely football, and when we are not at it like today in the second half we are solid and resolute, said Hughes.  "Over the course of the season the bread and butter of the league tells you how good you are.  "We are absolutely delighted not just for the supporters but for the whole city and the community of Inverness."  Dundee manager Paul Hartley has now watched his team lose five games in a row since their derby win over Dundee United last month, but was pleased with the performance.  He said: "I thought we did okay. I thought we had some good opportunities, their goalkeeper makes an absolutely outstanding save from McPake.  "I didn't think there was a lot in the game; they took their chance and we didn't.  "I thought we played some good stuff up until that final third, we created some good situations. I thought our movement was good and the speed of the play was good but we couldn't find that killer touch.  "We're playing the best teams in the top six but we want to finish the season as high as we can.  "We want to try and follow what St Johnstone and Inverness are doing just now and establish ourselves, trying to push for Europe and get to cup finals."