There are proposals to construct a cruise ship terminal in Barrow as part of the Waterfront redevelopment project.
www.bbc.co.uk/cumbria/enjoy_cumbria/places/barrow_dock_museum.shtml
   Informative, well designed website. Find out what's on in the museum and gallery plus access the huge Vickers Photo Archive. Barrow-in-Furness   Information for locals and visitors from the Barrow Borough Council. Lindal and Marton Community Website  There are very close links between Barrow and the Lindal and Marton area, as shipbuilding came into existence in Barrow largely as a result of the availability of iron ore that was mined out of Lindal and Marton. Find out more on this community website.    The BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites. The modern museum was built in 1994. Before that, the collection was housed in the library. The idea for a Barrow museum was proposed in 1897. The black markers on the path (see photo above) have a compass needle on the top. All the needles point to magnetic North.  The whole museum is built over and around an old graving dock. The stepped stonework structure of the dock inside the museum makes it truly unique - and provide perfect conditions for preserving the historic dock. Best of all, the whole museum - including the art collection and gallery - is totally free-of-charge! The only thing you'll need to fork out for is cuppa or something in the shop. Enlightenment Rocks   Two unusual outdoor sculptures at the museum go largely unnoticed by most visitors.    What do they mean and who made them?   Find out more about these intriguing waymarkers.    They might look like overgrown weeds but the fern-like plants growing on the dock wall are of national importance! A curator from Kew Gardens and a local fern specialist noticed the plants quietly enjoying the greenhouse conditions under the large curved window. Some of the plants growing there are: The varieties (from the asplenium species) grow in only a handful of UK locations. The museum staff take care to protect the graving dock so it was easy enough to make sure the plants are undisturbed too. However don't expect to see a giant display of greenery in the museum - the plants are just a quirky bonus feature! Visit the Dock Museum website to find out how to get there.   Tell us about your visit to the Dock Museum or send us your digital photos! Email us at cumbria@bbc.co.uk so we can include them for others to enjoy.