However, the BBC discontinued the bulletin in 2005, following a recommendation made in the 2004 Barwise Report, which found that the channel's target audience sought news from elsewhere.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/tv_and_radio/2738245.stm
BBC Three, the UK's latest digital channel, has been launched by presenter Johnny Vaughan with a range of programming aimed at the 25-34 age group.  The channel, which was previously known as BBC Choice, offers a mix of comedy, documentaries, celebrity profiles, news and niche programming from 7pm.  Among the stars appearing on the first transmission, were comedian Johnny Vegas, Justin Timberlake and former royal butler Paul Burrell.  It will broadcast from 7pm to 4am each day, and be available on cable, satellite and Freeview.  BBC Three controller Stuart Murphy described the channel as "television's boldest single investment in the future of Britain's creative talent".  He added that it would bring a "distinctive new voice to a generation of young adults".  "It is the only channel aimed at people in their 20s and 30s which offers a genuinely mixed schedule of quality, home grown programmes - 90% of the output will be made in the UK," he said.  "In every programme, whether it's science, arts, comedy, current affairs, drama, news, documentaries or animation, it will be BBC Three's job to raise the creative game for this audience."  BBC Three replaced BBC Choice, but did not get the go-ahead until Culture Minister Tessa Jowell agreed it was "distinctive" enough.  She rejected the channel's first application for a digital licence, but accepted the second last September.  The government will review the channel again in 2004 to make sure it is keeping to its brief.  Part of the channel's remit is to meet certain minimum levels of arts, current affairs, business and religious programming.  Its current affairs include 60 Seconds, an hourly news bulletin that delivers five news stories in one minute.  It will also feature entertainment programmes such as Celebdaq, an interactive show where viewers buy and sell celebrities based on how many column inches they generate in the week's news.  Lisa Faulkner and former Spice Girl Mel B will star in the series Burn It, a Manchester-based drama which addresses the issues of hitting 30.  The launch will include a brand new comedy series, Swiss Toni, a spin off from the Fast Show featuring Charlie Higson as the eponymous used car dealer.  And a new series of Johnny Vaughan Tonight, the chat show hosted by the former Big Breakfast host, will also form part of the line-up.