Ben Cooper answers to the Director of BBC Audio and Music, Tim Davie.
www.bbc.co.uk/mediacentre/latestnews/071211radio1.html
It’s important that Radio 1 continues to develop new talent and the station keeps evolving for our young listeners. These changes to our evening schedule will strengthen the range and depth of the specialist music offering on the network."  Skream & Benga, Toddla T, Charlie Sloth and Friction will all be hosting their own shows on the station from April 2012.  Friday night will continue to be the weekly destination for dance music fans and the biggest duo in Dubstep will be added to the line-up with Skream & Benga being given the 11pm-1am show. They will be added to the prestigious Friday night dance music line-up and follow Annie Mac (7pm-9pm) and Pete Tong (9pm- 11pm) who will remain in their current slots.  Benga said: "This is a massive honour and we're going to make the show really special. I'm so excited to get started and everyone is going to have a lovely time on Fridays!"  Toddla T, who has been on the In New DJ’s We Trust line-up since 2009 will be broadcasting his very own permanent show on Friday mornings (2am-4am).  Toddla T said: "Wowza! So so happy to have been given the chance to broadcast on Radio 1 every week. I’m looking forward to bringing the best in party club music from around the world to listeners!"  Thursday night (12midnight-2am) will also see the addition of a brand new show called the BBC Radio 1 Residency which will be presented by an impressive roster of DJs including Heidi, Chuckie and Kutski on a weekly rotation.  In New DJs We Trust, Radio 1's showcase for new DJ talent and new dance music will continue every Thursday evening (9pm-10pm) and early next year a brand new line-up of four cutting edge DJs will be revealed.  In addition to the changes to the dance music line-up, Charlie Sloth, who currently presents a hip-hop show on 1Xtra will be fronting his own show on Radio 1 on Tuesdays (2am-4am) and Friction* will be joining the station to host his own drum & bass show on Mondays (2am-4am).  Ben Cooper, Controller of Radio 1, said: ﻿"It’s important that Radio 1 continues to develop new talent and the station keeps evolving for our young listeners. These changes to our evening schedule will strengthen the range and depth of the specialist music offering on the network."  These changes mean that Judge Jules, Gilles Peterson, Kissy Sell Out, Fabio & Grooverider will be leaving Radio 1 next year.  Ben added: "We’d like to thank Jules, Gilles and Fabio & Grooverider for over a decade of hard work and commitment to music at Radio 1, and also to Kissy Sell Out his contribution over the last three years. All are incredibly talented and we wish them the very best for the future.’’  Judge Jules said: "I’ve had an incredible time over the last 14 years at Radio 1. I’m going to continue DJ’ing and I’m having a bit of a career change - I’m off to become an Entertainment Lawyer at Sheridans."  Gilles Peterson said: "I’ve had an amazing 13 years at Radio 1 - to be able to get away with the radical music that I’ve pushed out has always surprised me and I thank Radio 1 for giving me the freedom to do that. I’m looking forward to continuing my work in the BBC family some time in the future."  Gilles is currently talking to Radio 6 Music about future projects. The new schedule will come into effect from Monday 2nd April 2012  Summary of other specialist schedule changes:  The Essential Mix will move from Saturdays (3.00am-5.00am) to Saturday (1.00am-3.00am)  The Punk Show with Mike Davies will move from Tuesdays (2am-4am) to Wednesdays (12midnight-2am)  *Friction is a drum & bass DJ, not Bobby Friction who is a DJ on BBC Asian Network.