We have lost a major figure from our political landscape".
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/179358.stm
Talking about the incident over 50 years after the event the former premier said: "I didn't sleep particularly well that night.  "The Polish man was taken by the guards and tied up, blindfolded. Then the firing squad marched out and I gave the orders for them to fire. I obviously felt uneasy."  "Then later on when you pass over their ground you see dead bodies lying around. But it is very different when you see an individual."  The former Labour chancellor Lord Healey, an old friend, was certain Sir Edward had been profoundly affected by the war.  "He had a toughness which had not actually been visible - I don't say he didn't have it before the war but it was very visible after the war."  Mr Cockerell's profile of the former prime minister even revealed some details from his privates life that Sir Edward himself had not been fully aware of, even though he claimed not be shocked when told that an executive member of the Tory MPs' 1922 Committee once tried to find the party's then leader a bride.  Without Sir Edward's knowledge he approached his close friend the pianist Dame Moura Lympany and popped her the question on his leader's behalf.  She added: "He's a very romantic person, he's charming and attractive.... I would do anything for Ted."  Sir Edward's bachelor status provoked rumours over the years that his lifelong friend Ken Hunt lost no time in quashing.  "People said he was queer. People do say that. Actually he is just wedded to his politics and that's it. There is no place for anybody else."  On Dame Moura, Sir Edward said: "I liked her and apparently she liked me. We had a common interest in good food and wine."  But having failed to marry, the most important woman in Sir Edward's life was his mother who died of cancer during the 1951 general election campaign.  Sir Edward, a gifted musician, was visibly moved when he recalled how he would arrive home from a day spent campaigning to play his mother's favourite pieces on the piano as she lay dying.  On more familiar territory Mr Cockerell quizzed Sir Edward over his well known differences with the woman whom succeeded him as Tory leader, Margaret Thatcher.  Mr Cockerell asked Sir Edward if it was true that when he learnt Thatcher had been removed from power he rang his office and said: "Rejoice! Rejoice!"  Sir Edward denied it. He said he didn't say it twice, he said it three times.