Newcastle lost the game 2–0.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/15504063
Newcastle continued their unbeaten start to the season as Ryan Taylor's stunning goal saw off Everton.  Everton defender Johnny Heitinga turned in Danny Simpson's inviting low cross before Taylor doubled the lead when he crashed in a 25-yard shot.  Jack Rodwell headed in a corner to give Everton hope and the visitors should have been given a second-half penalty when Dan Gosling handballed.  But Alan Pardew's side closed out a win which keeps them third in the table.  Newcastle are now undefeated in the league since a 3-0 loss at Liverpool in May - a run of 14 games - but face a tough test of their ambitions in their next three fixtures.  Pardew takes his side to Manchester City and Manchester United on successive Saturdays after the international break, with Chelsea visiting St James' Park the following week.  But the Newcastle manager will have been concerned at the sight of influential midfielder Yohan Cabaye limping off with a groin injury.  Midfielder Danny Guthrie had the first effort on goal after a corner had not been cleared before Everton had a chance to open the scoring.  Seamus Coleman dragged his shot wide after Louis Saha had flicked on a Royston Drenthe cross from the left.  It proved to be a costly miss as Heitinga inadvertently put Newcastle ahead moments later.  Simpson's cross from the right was dangerous and Heitinga could only turn the ball past Tim Howard with Leon Best lurking just behind.  Drenthe created two quick chances for Everton but Rodwell and Leon Osman both had efforts saved by Tim Krul before Saha got in behind a faltering offside trap but lacked composure and blazed over.  Taylor then opened up a two-goal cushion in spectacular fashion.  Rodwell headed a long throw clear to Taylor 25 yards from goal and the full-back chested the ball down and smashed in a shot which arched over Howard before hitting the underside of the crossbar and bouncing in.  Saha hit the post and Taylor saw a cross strike the crossbar before Cabaye limped off to be replaced by former Everton midfielder Gosling.  Rodwell then brought the half to an end when he headed in Drenthe's corner at the near post.  Everton started the second period strongly and should have had a penalty when Saha's shot was blocked by Gosling's arm.  James McFadden came on for his first appearance for Everton since January 2008 as David Moyes' side had plenty of late pressure but Newcastle comfortably held on for the three points.  "We were unfortunate today as injuries cost us our rhythm but the guys who came on did a great job.  "If we were at Goodison Park we would have got beat today. But the fans helped us.  "Our defending was a different class in the second half and it was one of our best displays. When Everton scored just before half-time it affected us but our discipline and defending has got us a victory.  "I hope the Toon enjoy it tonight. We are a new team, we didn't expect to be on this run but we are enjoying it. We've got Manchester City next, who are also unbeaten, so that could be a great game."  "It was a penalty we didn't get today but we've had a lot of that.  "We were very fortunate against Fulham the other week and you earn your luck.  "Our defending in the first half wasn't good enough, especially in the opening 20 minutes. It was a terrible own goal to concede.  "We created enough chances in the first half to get something from the game.  "We've got to do better and win some football games."