Something is broken with Chelsea, The damage is big in the dressing room".
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/c/chelsea/7053489.stm
He told BBC Radio 1's Newsbeat: "If you are not happy to be somewhere it is difficult to give 100%.  "Now I'm giving 100% because I feel good. I love the fans - I think they show me the respect I deserve and this is very important."  Drogba also said he was in regular contact with former boss Jose Mourinho.  The 29-year-old admitted he was upset to see Mourinho leave the club in controversial circumstances last month.  "How could I not be emotional when he brought me to England, to the best league in the world," added Drogba.  "He was always behind me and protecting me, If I had a good season last year, it was because he was behind me and the team was behind me.  "I'm still in touch with him, the relationship is good. It's important to keep in touch with people you worked with for four years."  Drogba, speaking at an event to promote the new anti-racism single, "Skins", which he has recorded with team-mate Michael Essien, said Chelsea had not written off their Premiership title hopes despite their poor start to the season.  "Being eight points behind is a situation we are not used to," he said.  "Now what is good is that there are a lot of teams who are competing to be champions, more than two or three years ago. Maybe this will help us.  "It was very painful to lose the league last year - when you get used to something, it's difficult to lose it."  Last week, Chelsea issued a statement on Drogba's behalf in which he said he regretted his comments to a French magazine in which he made it clear he wished to leave.  "I am a Chelsea player and will be 100% committed and supportive to my manager, my team-mates and the club," he said.  "I will not be discussing my future any further until I meet privately with the club at the end of the season."  In an interview with France Football, he said he "wanted to leave Chelsea".  "Something is broken with Chelsea," he was quoted as saying. "The damage is big in the dressing-room.  "Nothing can stop me from leaving now," he added, listing Barcelona, Real Madrid, and both Milan clubs as possible destinations.  Drogba, 29, joined Chelsea from Marseille for £24m in July 2004 and has been the subject of regular speculation since then despite a prolific record with the Blues.  His comments suggested the Ivory Coast star was keen to leave the club in the January transfer window.  But Chelsea manager Avram Grant said he was keen to speak to the player in private to quell any further dressing-room unrest.  Drogba signed a four-year contract in November 2006 but told the BBC the following month he had considered leaving the previous summer in the wake of Chelsea's second successive league title.  On the subject of racism in football, Drogba told Newsbeat that the situation was better in England than abroad.  "I think it's easy to understand. In England on the TV you can see different nationalities presenting events and it's normal, but in some countries it's much more difficult," he said.  "It takes time, racism is not only in football. We have to deal with it because this is our world and where we express ourselves every day.  "In England, I've never really had a problem with racism. Abroad, it's different - it's a case of being educated.  "When people don't know about something, they act differently. The best message is to help them to know that maybe we have something in common."  Football's anti-racism campaign, Kick It Out, is currently running its 2007 "week of action".  Between 18-30 October, community groups, footballers and fans are coming together for an extended week of activities to promote inclusion under the "One Game, One Community" banner.