The film was released in the United Kingdom on 14 May 2004.
www.bbc.co.uk/tyne/features/2004/05/football_factory.shtml
Based on the hit novel by John King of the same name, Brit flick The Football Factory takes a no holds barred look at working class male culture through the eyes of four different generations. Directed by Nick Love, the film stars an all British cast featuring rising stars Danny Dyer and Tamer Hassan. Thanks to a rough pirate copy doing the rounds, the film is already causing a buzz before it is even released! What drew you to bring John King's novel onto the big screen? Nick: The book came out in 1997 and I tried to buy the rights to it then. I just thought it was a very under represented culture phenomenon. It's the kind of thing that has gone on in England since the 70s. The rights went to the highest bidder and I walked away from it. Then, it came back to me at the very beginning of last year with some people who had a very small amount of money, about half a million quid, who said 'listen, we've got the money to make this film, do you want to do it?' It was a question of adapting the script... I wrote the script in four days and shot it straight away.     The book has little to do with football and more to do with people in tribes, whether it be north v south, race, class etc. Was that difficult to portray on screen? Nick: Yeah, film is a very difficult medium. As an auteur, looking at something and going 'right this is the book and I'm going to make the film - now how am I going to do that?' It's a quite daunting sort of thing to do because the book has sold nearly 300,000 copies and is very well loved, very passionate book for the football terrace male culture. It's the first real book of its kind. The first thing I thought was keep the elements of the book so it feels like the book but absolutely do my own thing.    So why did you cast Danny Dyer and Tamer Hassan in the film? Nick: The film was cast before I wrote the script. These two were in it before they even auditioned. I think if you are making a film about a subject like this which has to be absolutely believable, you can only cast people, who aren't football thugs - Danny and Tamer aren't football thugs, but they have a real understanding about male culture, tribalism and hierarchy. There is nothing animated in it because every character is 100% as they are in real life They have such gravitas as actors. For years these sorts of films weren't getting made. It's quite hard to act and be natural, but when you have parts that are almost written for you, you can really be yourself in it. Tamer: When I met Nick, I met him on the set of The Calcium Kid and we sort of clicked straight away. There is nothing animated in it because every character is 100% as they are in real life. Why did you sign up to play Tommy Johnson, Danny? Danny: When they first wanted to make this film Nick wasn't attached to it. It was a totally different script, I auditioned for it and didn't get it. Then Nick came along, I got a reprieve and got the job. Did you have to research the parts? Tamer: Nah, we're passionate supporters, especially for me - I'm a Millwall fan. At the end of the day, I've owned nightclubs, restaurants and have come across real thugs. I used to go to football with the main boys from Millwall. For me research wasn't an issue. Tommy Johnson is a football thug. How do you make a character like that likeable? Danny: It was important to me that I put that across. You really need to care about Tommy by the end of the film. You have to make him endearing even though he's running about swearing and being violent. There's also the underlying thing where he is quite sensitive and is thinking about things.    Nick: Every character has something about them.. Millwall Fred (Tamer) - he's likeable because he's so big, all of his dialogue is so good, he's got a good face, such a presence. You watch Tamer's character and you think back it's mad you like him - he's an out and out bully thug but he has some sort of charm about him. I tried to give every character something that the audience can empathise with.    What has the reaction been from the gangs that are portrayed in The Football Factory? Tamer: All of them have seen the film and they absolutely love it. In the film you've got a range of football supporters Chelsea, West Ham, Millwall and Tottenham and they've all mixed together to play Chelsea firm. Whatever football club they support, they love it. Everywhere we go, people are like 'Football Factory- what a great film'. I go onto the terraces in Millwall and I'm like a celebrity.    Nick: The reason for that is an incomplete pirate DVD of the film got out last year and from one DVD it's turned into an epidemic. Tens of thousands of copies are going up and down the country. The thing is the pirate is only one tenth of the real film, it's missing voiceover, music, and credits. A lot of people have seen the pirate and love it. Has the pirate version helped create a buzz around the film?    Danny: Yeah, people are going mad for the DVD. Tamer: I think so, but the actual film is very different and has added scenes. Nick: Part of me wishes I had thought of it myself as it has been a great bit of underground marketing.     Music plays a big part in The Football Factory... Nick: When you make a film that people are interested to see, it makes life really easy. Mike Skinner (The Streets) came to see the film and wanted to give us a song for nothing. Primal Scream's Bobby Gillespie saw the film and wanted to give us a song. So when everyone wants to be in the film, it's a real good footing.    The film features a couple of gang fight scenes- were they difficult to co-ordinate? Tamer: Shooting the last scene, everyone knew everyone on set. It was favours of goodwill all over. We were all on the phone asking people if they wanted to be in the scene. They were all Millwall supporters, turning up in their droves. Danny's side were all actors, but for me it was hard work - the hardest day's work I've ever done. I had 50 to 60 non-actors. It was a great experience.    What's next for you all? Nick: We're all off to the Costa del Sol. We're doing a film set in the 1980s about the rise and fall of the British crimewave in the Costa del Sol. It's called 'The Business'