Southampton lost the match 1–0, but Baird was voted as the Saints man of the match.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/fa_cup/3036411.stm
Marks out of 10 for the Arsenal and Southampton players following their FA Cup final.  David Seaman: Looked occasionally nervy with his kicking and in coming for the ball, yet made a very important save from Ormerod's shot.  Lauren: Steady defensively, though contributed little going forward. Made a brave challenge to block Jo Tessem's shot.  Martin Keown: Emerged bruised and battered as well as with a booking for a tackle on Ormerod. All-in-all a typical day's work for Keown as he picked up another winners' medal.  Oleg Luzhny: Supposedly one of the weak links in the Arsenal defence, emerged with an enhanced reputation after making some key challenges and clearances.  Ashley Cole: Attacking impetus thwarted by Gordon Strachan's decision to pair Chris Baird and Paul Telfer on the right. Cleared Beattie's header off the line in stoppage time.  Freddie Ljungberg: Gradually emerged as a threat as he started to arrive in the box in dangerous positions, notably when he hit the side-netting soon after the restart.  Ray Parlour: Provided plenty of drive and together with Gilberto ensured Arsenal won control of the centre of midfield.  Gilberto: Brought some Brazilian flair to the final, notably the way he spread the play with some raking passes.  Robert Pires: Initially subdued by Baird and Telfer on the left wing, the Frenchman intelligently moved infield and slipped his markers for the goal.  Dennis Bergkamp: Linked the play with some superb passes and made a great run in the build-up to Pires' goal.  Thierry Henry: As against Liverpool two years ago missed a number of chances, though his vision and pace was an irritant to the Southampton defence throughout.  Sylvain Wiltord (replaced Bergkamp): Had a quiet game as Arsenal killed the match.  Antti Niemi: Kept Southampton in the game in the first minute when he spread himself to deny Henry. Went off injured with a calf injury after making an innocuous clearance.  Chris Baird: In only his third appearance showed maturity beyond his years as he cleared off the line and tested Seaman with a clever shot.  Claus Lundekvam: Embarrassed by Henry in the opening minute and could well have been sent off had referee Graham Barber not decided to play the advantage.  Michael Svensson: Important for Southampton on set-pieces but often left chasing shadows trying to contain Henry and Bergkamp.  Wayne Bridge: Together with Chris Marsden stifled Lauren and Ljunberg on the Arsenal right, but struggled to get forward until the game's later stages.  Paul Telfer: Kept Pires subdued early on, but let the Frenchman go for the first goal. Focused more on defensive rather than attaking duties.  Anders Svensson Did his best to break up Arsenal's passing movements, but his creative input suffered as he concentrated on his defensive duties.  Matt Oakley: Never tired in trying to deny Henry and Bergkamp service, but struggled in prompting Southampton attacks.  Chris Marsden: Steadying influence in midfield and put in a steady stream of crosses from the left.  James Beattie: Certainly made his physical presence felt, but had to be content with scraps in terms of chances.  Brett Ormerod: Worked his socks off and had Southampton's best chance when he tested Seaman with a fierce shot.  Paul Jones (replaced Niemi): Came on for the injured Niemi midway through the second half and made a good save from Henry's deflected shot.  Jo Tessem (replaced Anders Svensson): Almost scored with his first touch, but his shot was blocked by Lauren.