On 24 April 2016, Aneta resumed presenting duties in the UK.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/bbcworldwide/worldwidestories/pressreleases/2008/04_april/cbeebies_poland.shtml
BBC Worldwide's Global Channels business today unveiled Aneta Bożena Piotrowska as the new Polish host for CBeebies.  Aneta, originally from Mirsk, Poland, beat off strong competition from over 30 applicants for the position, following a search by BBC Worldwide to find a bright new talent for the Polish channel.  She will appear on screens from mid-April this year.  In encouraging pre-schoolers to learn through play in CBeebies' safe and trusted environment, Aneta will provide fun ideas and games for children and parents while linking CBeebies' award-winning series and children's favourites on-air.  Commenting on her appointment, Aneta said: "I am very honoured to be chosen for this role, and I look forward to the challenge.  "It feels like an invitation to the wonderful world of two to six year-olds or a ticket to an adventure park in the extraordinary company of children!"  David Weiland, SVP Programming, Global Channels, BBC Worldwide said: "We are delighted to welcome Aneta to the CBeebies global family. We were really impressed with her natural warmth, energy and enthusiasm which we believe will translate well onto screens and create a real connection with children at home in Poland.  "We plan to localise our output which will bolster the connection between our audience and our award-winning content."  27-year-old Aneta has previously appeared in a variety of theatre productions, commercials and short films.  An accomplished dancer in a range of styles, including Tango, Latin American and Jazz, Aneta also plays the accordion and is a keen painter.  Aneta will join a long list of energetic stars who entertain CBeebies' viewers in the UK and Asia.  Other CBeebies hosts include Pui Fan Lee, who presents CBeebies for the Singapore and Hong Kong transmissions, and Chris Jarvis, Andy Day and Sidney Sloane in the UK.  Modelled on the UK's number one and BAFTA-winning children's channel, CBeebies launched in Poland last December on the Cyfrowy Polsat platform.  The channel presents a mix of new and landmark, high-quality children's programming from the BBC and independent producers, in a safe, trusted and commercial-free environment.