The Hilfield Project, which encourages environmental sustainability within the Franciscan ethos of peace, faith and justice, is run from here.
www.bbc.co.uk/dorset/content/articles/2009/03/25/hilfield_project_feature.shtml
Hillfield is a Fransiscan friary overlooking the Blackmore Vale and run by the brothers of the Society of St. Francis, who have established a project which combines caring for the natural environment with a commitment to faith, peace and justice - and is open to all.  Rooted in the life and spirituality of St Francis of Assisi [a friar and the founder of the Order of Friars Minor, more commonly known as the Franciscans], the brothers are working to share the Gospel greeting of peace with the people they meet.  With global warming and the environment becoming an important issue for many people, the Hilfield Project aims to do what it's always done, but in a way that makes it more accessible to all - through conservation projects on the land, by growing organic food and by understanding sustainable living, via the work and courses offered at the friary.  As Brother Samuel explains though, this isn't be about giving people a guilt trip.  He says: "There's so much talk about it [the environment] that some people are a bit off put by it. People are made to feel guilty about it and we want to do the opposite of that.  "We want to help people to see that to live sustainably and to live peaceably with the environment is the most wonderful and joyful thing to do.  "I think the way we live with the environment affects the way we live with each other. If we live aggressively and destructively with the environment, we are more likely to live aggressively and destructively with each other."  The Hilfield Project is open to people from all backgrounds, but people thinking of staying at the friary must be sympathetic towards the brothers' Franciscan ethos, which is fundamentally Christian and centred on Jesus Christ.  Brother Samuel explains: "At the heart of our life here is a life of prayer. We worship together in the chapel four times a day and many of the people who come here join in that with us, but it's not made a condition.  "At the core of the community here is a group of vowed Franciscan brothers of the Anglican Society of St Francis. We also have people living with us in the long term and young volunteers who come and work here for up to a year.  "We are always looking for day volunteers; people who'll just come and give a hand - digging in the garden, helping with the office work, doing a bit of cleaning or helping with welcoming people [to the friary]."  Originally from Switzerland, she came to Dorset when her relationship failed.  Having always had a strong Christian faith, Chantal explains that she hoped God would guide her to the next chapter in her life.  She says: "I split with my ex-partner. It was very hard for me. I just had to go - we weren't married. So, I decided to leave everything behind and left overnight.  "I always wanted to go to England, so I ended up in Weymouth with my car.  "Praying in a church [in Weymouth] I opened a newspaper and read an article about the [Hilfield] project and I thought, 'that's it!'"  Although Chantal doesn't necessarily feel closer to God since becoming involved with the Hilfield Project, she does admit that she discusses her faith more.  She says: "I am more open to tell everybody who wants to hear how I feel about it [my faith] and I didn't do that before, as it seemed to be a very private thing.  "My friends in Switzerland often write me letters now and write about problems. They are more open now just knowing that I am living in a Franciscan friary. It seems to be a safe place to bring things up."  He says: "There are chances for me personally to come closer to God through the work on the land. That's where I feel very close to the Divine.  "I can see the Divine in creation, especially through working with it - so with the animals and in the garden - and also through living alongside other people as a community.  "I think you have to try to be open to the Divine within each person when you live together. It's a lot of hard work, because we're just normal people with all of our normal problems and difficulties."  Richard also faces difficulties with his closest friends in his hometown in Dorset.  He says: "[They] don't understand why I'm here from a spiritual point of view. I think they understand the joy that it gives me in terms of working closely with the environment and working closely in building relationships with other people, but what I find difficult is that they can't see why that is obviously a spiritual pursuit.  "The more difficult they find it the greater value I think there is in us doing it, because it challenges their preconceptions.  It's the same with the brothers. When people say, 'why would you chose to live a life of poverty, chastity and obedience?' - I think the very fact they [other people] are forced to ask that question, endorses its relevance and the need for it in the modern world."