Re-branded as Bed Nightclub, the re-opening was based on the condition that metal detectors were installed, and only plastic glasses were used.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-leeds-13858926
A Leeds nightclub is being allowed to re-open on condition customers are searched with metal detectors if the police request it.  Gatecrasher had its licence revoked in February after what police described as "violent" incidents.  The club must comply with a number of new conditions before it can re-open.  Simon Raine, managing director of Gatecrasher, said: "Public safety is of paramount importance and we must work together on this."  The club was closed after police applied to Leeds City Council to revoke the licence following the stabbing of a 17-year-old boy in January.  At a hearing at Leeds Magistrates' Court, Gatecrasher agreed that staff would use either hand-held metal detectors or "knife arches" to look for weapons at the "reasonable request" of West Yorkshire Police.  It was also agreed the club would provide the police with risk assessments at least 28 days before it staged any new or externally-promoted events.  Customers at the club will also have to use plastic drinking glasses as an additional safety measure.  Ch Insp Vernon Francis, from West Yorkshire Police, said it was important action had been taken against the club.  "We hope the recommendations will ensure people who choose to attend the club in the future can enjoy their evenings safely," he said.  Councillor Suzi Armitage, from Leeds City Council's licensing committee, said Gatecrasher's management would need to show "commitment and improved co-operation".  She said: "A failure to meet these conditions will result in further action being taken."  Mr Raine said a "stringent security and management overhaul" had been carried out at the Leeds club.  He said: "We have worked closely with the council and West Yorkshire Police to agree a strategy and will continue to work with them.  "We look forward to working in partnership with West Yorkshire Police and all interested parties to minimise crime and disorder and uphold the licensing objectives."  Gatecrasher plans to re-open its Leeds club later in 2011.