Controversy ensued in the United Kingdom and many other countries, with the video showing Williams tearing chunks of skin and muscle from his body while performing a strip show, in an attempt to get noticed by a group of women.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/859988.stm
Brit Award-winning pop acts Steps and Five have announced they are kicking off their winter tours at a Butlins seaside resort.  The concerts, at Minehead in Somerset, are in November, and tickets are expected to sell out soon after they go on sale on Tuesday.  Signing the two bands, alongside Atomic Kitten, Scooch and Abba tribute band Bjorn Again, was "the crowning glory of Butlins' biggest-ever winter programme," a spokesman said.  Meanwhile, Steps join Westlife and at the second TV Hits Awards Show, which takes place this October at London's Wembley Arena.  The teenage magazine organised the show to include acts like Boyzone's Stephen Gately and S Club 7 following the success of last year's debut awards.  "It's going to be a very exciting show with lots of big name performances," said Lisa Scott-Lee from Steps.  Actor Tony Stuart, who starred as one of the "geriatric delinquents" in the TV comedy Waiting for God, has died in a Brighton hospital at the age of 78.  Born Harry Brigden in Burnley, Stuart launched his West End career as a dancer and later comic actor and writer after serving in World War II.  His many achievements include appearing on stage with Julie Andrews, in the Richard Attenborough film Oh! What a Lovely War and in The Two Ronnies on TV.  Leonardo DiCaprio is negotiating to star in Catch Me if You Can, a real-life conman tale to be filmed next year.  The actor will play Frank Abagnale Jr, the only teenager ever placed on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted List.  Abagnale impersonated pilots, doctors and politicans, writing $6m (£3.7m) in bad cheques all over the world before he was caught - all before he was 18.  DiCaprio's next film will be Gangs of New York for Martin Scorsese in August.  The long-awaited new single from Robbie Williams, Rock DJ, has gone on sale.  Rock DJ offers fans their first taste of his forthcoming third album, Sing When You're Winning.  The song's controversial video was recently censored before being shown on Top of the Pops.  It shows Williams, 26, tearing chunks of skin and muscle from his body while performing a strip show in an attempt to get noticed by a group of women.