They ended with a goal differential of −23, the worst of any national team in any major competition.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/22924993
Abel Hernandez scored a first-half hat-trick as Uruguay booked a place in the Confederations Cup semi-finals with a comprehensive win over Tahiti.  The striker scored a header and finished a Nicolas Lodeiro pass before Diego Perez and Hernandez made it four.  Andres Scotti's penalty was saved before the Uruguayan and Tahiti's Teheivarii Ludivion were sent off.  Lodeiro scored a fifth and Hernandez converted from the spot before substitute Luis Suarez added two more.  Oscar Tabarez's team will now face hosts Brazil in the last four on Wednesday.  Uruguay knew that a point would probably be enough to progress and Tabarez was confident enough to make 11 changes with the last four in mind.  That included leaving out Suarez, Edinson Cavani and Diego Forlan out of the starting line-up but Palermo's Hernandez, who had only scored three international goals before the match, provided plenty of cutting edge.  The amateurs of Tahiti have won plenty of praise for their efforts in Brazil and there were positives for them to take away from Recife, with striker Steevy Chong-Hue impressing and debutant Gilbert Meriel being able to celebrate his penalty save from Scotti.  But their prospects of claiming any more than flashes of pride were over after just one minute and 19 seconds, when Hernandez scored the quickest goal in the history of the competition.  Lodeiro's corner was glanced on by Scotti and Hernandez had a simple finish at the far post and the striker showed similar composure when he raced on to a Lodeiro pass and beat Meriel.  Perez scored a third - his second in 85 internationals - when he ran on to a Walter Gargano lob and tapped in from close range after his initial header was stopped by the post.  Chong Hue gave Uruguay a scare when he coasted around goalkeeper Martin Silva but could only hit the side-netting from a narrow angle.  But Hernandez extended the advantage just before the interval when he guided a shot into the corner from yet another clever pass from Napoli midfielder Gargano.  After the break Nicolas Vallar bundled over Matias Aguirregaray in the area but Meriel, the third goalkeeper used by Tahiti in the tournament, managed to keep out Scotti's effort.  Scotti's frustration mounted when he was shown a second yellow card for a tug at Scotti but the sides were soon evened up when Ludivion tripped Aguirregaray and was also given a second yellow, leaving the field in tears.  Lodeiro turned in a drilled cross from Gargano and Hernandez made no mistake from the spot to make it six.  Suarez produced a fine solo run to score a seventh and then received a pass from Hernandez on the edge of the area and found the bottom corner to leave Tahiti with a record of scored one, conceded 24 in the tournament.  "Our primary objective on arriving in Brazil was to make sure we stayed in the tournament until the end, and we've made that happen. For that reason, we're very satisfied.  "In terms of this result, in spite of the fact that nothing's impossible in football, things went as you'd expect. We rested a few players because if they'd played it would've been trickier for them to recover in time [for the semi-finals].  "We took a risk in that regard, but things turned out very well. We've now got two more opportunities to give a good impression of our national team and, even though we're aware of Brazil's ability, we'll be aiming for a positive result."  "My players really played with their souls, with all their hearts. This is what was important for us.  "At the end of the game, they made a point of thanking the Brazilian public. This is what we will take back with us from Brazil."  [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred while processing this directive]