He teamed up again with former manager Walter Smith.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/r/rangers/6262693.stm
Ibrox manager Walter Smith signed the 36-year-old for Everton and also picked him during his time as Scotland boss.  "I have had the pleasure of working with Walter before and I can't wait to team up with him at Ibrox," Weir told the club website.  "This is a terrific move for me at this stage of my career."  Weir, formerly with Falkirk and Hearts, was approached by several English Championship clubs but decided on a return to Scotland.  And Smith is delighted to capture the central defender, who has been capped 52 times.  "David has served me well at club and international level throughout the years and I know he can do a good job for Rangers," said Smith.  Weir moved to Goodison Park in 1999 but has only started three games for the Premiership side this season, making three more appearances as a substitute.  "When David made it clear he wanted to join Rangers we did not want to stand in his way," said Everton boss David Moyes.  "David has been a great servant to Everton and a model professional and everybody at the club wishes him all the best for the future."  Weir is relishing the opportunity to finally show what he can offer Rangers, even at this late stage of his career.  "Hopefully there's a lot of football left in me, as I'm still enjoying it," he told BBC Scotland Sport.  "I'm just delighted to be here, and even though it's a short term deal you can't look ahead too much in football anyway."  Meanwhile, Richard Gough - who played alongside Weir for the Toffees - says that Smith's move will prove to be a masterstroke.  And Gough firmly believes the veteran defender can rise to the challenge of improving Rangers' defensive misfortunes.  "It's definitely a great move by Walter," he said.  "David is a top man - you couldn't meet a better person and I really enjoyed my time at Everton with him.  "He was brave, reads the game easily and is a good passer of the ball.  "I played for Rangers at 36 comfortably so I'm sure David will have no problem playing until the end of the season," added the former Rangers and Scotland captain.  "It's good that Walter brought him back into the international set-up again.  "He has looked after himself well and is a good professional."  MY SPORT DEBATE: Give your reaction to this news