As neither driver scored, Schumacher took the title.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/low/motorsport/formula_one/5024532.stm
The German's career has been littered with similar incidents, where rivals have accused him of going beyond the bounds of fair play.  Here, we highlight just some of the controversial events in which Schumacher has been involved in F1.  With the world championship at stake, Schumacher's Benetton slid wide and into the wall while trying to stay ahead of title rival Damon Hill's Williams.  Schumacher turned in on the Williams, putting both cars out of the race and sealing his first world title.  Hill wrote in a subsequent book: "There are two things that set Michael apart from the rest of the drivers in Formula One - his sheer talent and his attitude.  "I am full of admiration for the former, but the latter leaves me cold."  Williams driver Jacques Villeneuve would win the championship if he beat Schumacher, now with Ferrari, in the final race of the season at Jerez in Spain.  Again, Schumacher turned in on his rival, but this time it backfired.  Schumacher's car was left beached in a gravel trap, while Villeneuve continued to finish third and win the title.  F1's governing body later stripped Schumacher of his second place in the championship, although it allowed all his results from that season to stand in the record books.  To Coulthard's consternation, Schumacher was not punished.  Battling for the lead at 200mph, Schumacher moved aggressively across on Mika Hakkinen's McLaren as the Finn tried to pass.  Their wheels touched, but - fearing an accident - Hakkinen backed off, passing the Ferrari for the lead a lap later.  When the drivers climbed out of their cars after the race, Hakkinen took Schumacher to one side and left him in no doubt that he took a dim view of the Ferrari driver's on-track ethics.  In a news conference a few minutes later, Schumacher denied he had done anything wrong.  Even Schumacher's brother has felt the sheer force of his determination to win.  Michael Schumacher made a poor start to the 2001 European Grand Prix at Germany's Nurburgring, while brother Ralf was much faster away in his Williams.  To stop his brother passing, Michael veered across the track at him, leaving Ralf with the choice of backing off or risk being forced into the wall. He backed off.  The team were fined $1m and team orders "contrary to the interests of competition" were later banned from F1.  Trying to defend his position from Renault driver Fernando Alonso on the opening lap, Schumacher moved across on the Spaniard at the fastest part of the track.  Although Alonso did not back off, Schumacher continued to move across, forcing half the Renault on to the grass at 190mph.