Marches were also held in Paris, Moscow, Budapest, Warsaw and Dublin.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2899827.stm
"Bush, Iraq is not your killing field," one banner read amid the sea of people at Sunday's event.  The BBC's Jonathan Head says this was the biggest anti-war demonstration to take place so far in the world's most populous Muslim nation.  But he says that, despite the efforts of militants to use the conflict to mobilise the Muslim majority, it is not being seen as a war against Islam.  Islamic groups dominated the gathering, but Christians, Buddhists and people of other faiths could be seen among the demonstrators.  The peaceful family atmosphere was in stark contrast to the angry protests which greeted the United States operation in Afghanistan.  China has held its first, officially sanctioned anti-war protest - although it may represent the smallest protest in any world capital to date.  Around 200 foreigners were permitted to shout anti-war slogans as they marched past the US embassy in Beijing on Sunday.  But police ordered around 100 Chinese students to surrender their banners and blocked them from entering a park where local people had secured permission to demonstrate.  One Chinese man was hauled off for handing out anti-war leaflets, reported Reuters news agency.  Rallies have been taking place around the world since Friday, when mass demonstrations erupted in many Muslim states after traditional Friday Prayers.  Protesters' tactics have ranged from rallies under banners to a "die-in" in Genoa, where people lay down in busy streets to simulate Iraqis killed in air raids, to a naked march through the streets of Bogota.  In the US, the city of Boston held what observers said was the biggest march since the Vietnam War.  Protesters also turned out in Washington DC, while pro-army activists rallied in San Francisco and other cities.  Europe, a focus of anti-war feeling, saw demonstrations in many major cities and near US military facilities on Saturday.