Businesses in the area wanted an easier route to get their goods out of the area.
www.bbc.co.uk/stoke/content/articles/2006/11/07/a500_planning_feature.shtml
In the 1960s, it could take hours to get through the Potteries. The A34 via Newcastle was the main trunk road through the area. The M6 had been opened, but with no easy link to the motorway, goods and traffic were simply sailing straight past the Potteries.  Local businesses were crying out for a better way to get their goods out of the area - and political leaders decided it was time to act.  Listen as Former Lord Mayor of Stoke, Bill Austin remembers the highs and lows of planning, financing and building the A500...  Bill Austin was the head of the Finance Committee at Stoke City Council in the 1960s and played a key role drawing up the original plans for the A500, persuading businesses and local people that it was a good idea, and then fighting to get funding for the road from Westminer.  It was a difficult process convincing the people of the Potteries that they should welcome a huge road being built through their city. But business leaders warned the council that by the mid 60s, a transport revolution was on the horizon, and Bill Austin could see the need to get the Potteries ready for the explosion in numbers of motor cars.  But building the road would cause a huge upheaval, requiring lots of land to be bought up, buildings and homes demolished, and people and businesses relocated.  Convincing the locals was only part of the battle in getting the road built - Bill and his fellow councillors had taken their plans to Westminster - where they would go from triumph to despair at the hands of the government before the road was finally opened in 1977.  After many visits to and from London, seeing "everyone from the teaboy to the PM", Stoke Council secured the funding required to complete the expressway through the Potteries.  Although most of the construction went ahead smoothly, part of the road got bogged down while workers filled in mining subsidence. Additional funding was needed to complete the road as planned.  The A500 finally was officially opened on 02 November 1977. The day was tinged with regret with the road not being fully complete, but the opening ceremony is fondly remembered by Bill Austin, even though the bus carrying the dignitaries broke down - and protestors disrupted proceedings.  It was the end of a long project for Bill and his fellow councillors, but Stoke-on-Trent had to face 30 years of roadworks, misery, and congestion before the road was finally completed as it was originally planned - in November 2006.