I personally would have tried a sharp and fit up-and-coming star of which there are many around".
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/motorsport/formula_one/drivers_and_teams/8194061.stm
"After 12 years as a Ferrari test driver, Luca Badoer must surely have thought he would never get to race one of the scarlet works of art.  "With Michael Schumacher's disappointing but clearly necessary decision to abandon his comeback for the European Grand Prix in Valencia because of a neck injury, loyal Badoer is rewarded with a drive in the latest F60 F1 car.  "It is surprising to some that Ferrari has not elected to use fellow tester Marc Gene who once stood in pretty successfully at Williams.  "The problem is that, with the testing ban for 2009, none of the test drivers are really up to speed. I personally would have tried a sharp and fit up-and-coming star of which there are many around.  "Jaime Alguersuari hardly disgraced himself in the Torro Rosso at the Hungarian Grand Prix, after all.  "Badoer was the 1992 Formula 3000 champion, the fore-runner of the GP2 feeder series. At 38, he is just two years younger than Schumacher and takes over from Brawn's Rubens Barrichello as the oldest man on the grid.  "But in this case age does not mean experience. Despite spending 17 seasons around F1, Badoer has started just 49 races - for Italian minnows Scuderia Italian, Minardi and Forti Corse - and his last race was a decade ago in Japan.  "He has yet to score a world championship point and, while he will inevitably struggle for pace and race fitness, he may reverse into a point or two now."  Luca Badoer's answers will appear here as soon as possible.  What three words would you use to describe what it's like to be a Formula One driver?  What is the biggest perk of the job?  How would you like to be remembered as an F1 driver?  What is your most embarrassing sporting moment?  Who is the worst dressed Formula One driver?  If you were not a F1 driver what would you be?  Who is the greatest sportsman of all time?  What would be your perfect day off?  Where is your favourite place to go on holiday?  Apart from a house what is the most expensive thing that you own?  What is your favourite item of clothing?  What is your favourite music to drive to?  Which famous person - dead or alive - would you like to have dinner with and why?  Tell us something about yourself that most F1 fans might not know.