Tension rises in Spain with anti and pro-ETA demonstrations and riots.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/872833.stm
An army officer has been shot dead in northern Spain.  The attack is the country's fourth violent incident in three days, and all are being attributed to the Basque separatist organisation, ETA.  In the latest attack, second lieutenant Francisco Casanova Vicente, 47, was shot twice in the back of the head as he drove into his garage in Pamplona, the capital of Navarre, close to the Basque region.  The incident comes just hours after Spaniards held silent vigils to protest against three car bombings which killed five people - four of them suspected ETA members - within 24 hours. Defence Minister Federico Trillo immediately broke off his holiday to go to Pamplona. Speaking after the shooting, the leader of the Basque Socialist Party (PSE) called for calm following what he described as ETA's declaration of "total war". Secretary-General Nicolas Redondo Terreros said: "By going down this road, we're going nowhere, only towards a precipice." Earlier, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar had urged the country's political parties to unite against the separatist violence.  "It is important that we maintain our resistance and do not bow before terror," he said. Hundreds of people across Spain have been on the streets, silently protesting against the wave of violence. Another protest was taking place on Wednesday, including a demonstration in central Madrid with politicians and union leaders. On Monday four members of Basque separatist group ETA died when a bomb they were carrying in their car exploded in Bilbao.  Police believe one of them was a leading ETA commander, Patxi Rementeria, on his way to carry out a bomb attack. Correspondents say security forces are working on the theory that the Bilbao bomb was due to have been the first of three outrages in quick succession. On Tuesday, a car bomb detonated by remote control in Zumaia, a Basque town near San Sebastian, killed prominent businessman Jose Maria Korta, who had been an outspoken critic of ETA. A second blast in the capital, Madrid, injured 11 people. ETA broke a 14-month ceasefire in December last year. Police believe the suspension of violence was used to restructure and consolidate the group's position.