Calvi's clothing was stuffed with bricks, and contained cash valued at US$14,000, in three different currencies.
news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/june/19/newsid_3092000/3092625.stm
The body of a top Italian banker has been found hanging from Blackfriars Bridge in London.  Known as God's banker for his links with the Vatican, 62-year-old Roberto Calvi was the chairman of Banco Ambrosiano in Milan and a central figure in a complex web of international fraud and intrigue.  He had been missing for the last nine days before his body was discovered by a passer-by hanging from scaffolding on a riverside walk under the bridge.  Police are treating the death as suicide.  Mr Calvi became chairman of Banco Ambrosiano, now Italy's largest private bank, in 1975 and built up a vast financial empire.  In 1978, a report by the Bank of Italy on Ambrosiano concluded that several billion lire had been illegally exported.  In May 1981, Mr Calvi was arrested, found guilty, and sentenced to four years' imprisonment, but released pending an appeal. During his short spell in jail he attempted suicide.  Mr Calvi was due to appear in an Italian court next week to appeal against this conviction.  Later this month he was to be tried for alleged fraud involving property deals with Sicilian banker Michele Sindona, who is himself serving 25 years in America over the collapse of the Franklin National Bank in New York in 1974.  The Vatican is directly linked to Mr Calvi by Archbishop Paul Marcinkus, the Pope's bodyguard, a governor of the Vatican and head of the Vatican bank which has a shareholding in Ambrosiano.  Now Ambrosiano is on the verge of collapse amid press reports that investigators found a £400m "hole" in its accounts. Last week the bank's executive board decided to strip Mr Calvi of his authority.  The Italian Treasury dissolved the bank's administration and the Bank of Italy is now a temporary commissioner.  Mr Calvi fled to Venice nine days ago after shaving his moustache to avoid being recognised.  From there it seems he hired a private plane to take him to London.  The day before he was found dead, his secretary committed suicide in Milan by jumping off the fourth floor of the bank's headquarters.  Teresa Corrocher, aged 55, left an angry suicide note condemning her boss for the damage she said he had done to Ambrosiano and its employees.