It was broadcast during Christmas 2014.
www.bbc.co.uk/mediacentre/latestnews/2014/mapp-and-lucia
As a long-time fan of EF Benson's 'Mapp And Lucia' novels, I'm incredibly proud and privileged to be scripting a brand-new adaptation for the BBC."  It takes place over the summer of 1930 when Mrs Emmeline Lucas, known to her friends as Lucia, decides to take a holiday in the charming Queen Anne town of Tilling…  Writer Steve Pemberton says: “As a long-time fan of EF Benson's 'Mapp And Lucia' novels, I'm incredibly proud and privileged to be scripting a brand-new adaptation for the BBC.  "I feel sure viewers will relish their time in Tilling, and will enjoy watching the slyly scheming Mapp take on the gloriously haughty Lucia in a dizzying round of bitter bridge parties, devious dinners and malicious musical evenings.  "Benson's deplorably funny novels and cast of subversive, eccentric characters have been entertaining readers for over 90 years, and I hope to bring Tilling thrillingly to life. But be warned: this is no jolly period romp. This is a series about a war. May the worst-behaved woman win.”  Kate Harwood, Head of In-House BBC Drama Production, England, says: ﻿“It is fantastic to see Steve Pemberton’s high quality Mapp And Lucia scripts joining our slate of upcoming dramas for BBC In-House Drama Production England. It promises to be a truly original British treat for BBC One viewers.”  Mapp And Lucia is directed by Diarmuid Lawrence (Quirke: The Silver Swan, The Lady Vanishes, The Mystery Of Edwin Drood). It is produced by Susie Liggat (The Tractate Middoth, The Café) and the executive producer is Lisa Osborne (Quirke, The Mystery Of Edwin Drood, South Riding).  Commissioned by Charlotte Moore, Controller, BBC One, and Ben Stephenson, Controller, BBC Drama Commissioning.  Mapp And Lucia is made by BBC Drama Production for BBC One and will film early summer 2014 in Rye, Sussex, which was the template for Benson’s Tilling.  Casting will be announced in due course.