Sinclair became ZTT's managing director, while Paul Morley concentrated on marketing.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/5120318.stm
He came to public attention performing as the Buggles on Video Killed the Radio Star in 1979, a number one hit and the first video to be played on MTV.  He also gained production credits with ABC, Dollar and Malcolm McLaren.  He founded ZTT in 1983. It was named after a poem by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, which had described "zang tumb tumb" as the sound of a machine gun firing.  Ms Sinclair became the label's managing director, while NME writer Paul Morley concentrated on marketing duties.  One of their EPs, Into Battle, would be ZTT's first release in September 1983.  Frankie Goes to Hollywood were the first major signing in 1983, and it was the band's first and the label's second single, Relax, that became the label's first number one in January 1984.  The song was banned by the BBC for its suggestive lyrics but its five weeks at number one were swiftly followed by a further nine weeks on top of the chart for the follow-up, Two Tribes.  Relax stayed in the Top 75 for a full year and ZTT was well and truly established.  Art of Noise began to chart, while style icon Grace Jones also enjoyed success with her single and album Slave to the Rhythm.  There were extensive sleeve notes, covers containing secret codes and multi-format releases with numerous remixes.  Aside from the records themselves, ZTT also had a range of merchandise.  Perhaps one of the images of the decade is the t-shirt proclaiming Frankie Say Relax, which seemed to be everywhere in the summer of 1984.  A new era began in 1988, after Frankie Goes to Hollywood's second album failed to match the success of their debut.  Lead singer Holly Johnson - and German group Propaganda - would go to court to be released from their contracts with ZTT.  Manchester group 808 State would reach the top 10 with their anthemic song Pacific, released at the end of 1989, and Seal was the next major ZTT act to emerge a year later.  ZTT continues today, mostly finding new ways to breathe life into its back catalogue through digital downloads and remastered versions of albums.  And in 2004 it also released a compilation showcasing Mr Horn's finest work as a producer, including some acts which were signed to other labels, such as the Pet Shop Boys and Simple Minds.