It was Williams' 49th international try for Wales (51st in all internationals), and his 18th in the Six Nations, equalling the record by a Welshman in the tournament, held by Gareth Edwards.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_union/8508259.stm
Wales snatched a dramatic win over Scotland in the Six Nations thanks to Shane Williams' last-gasp try. Scotland looked as if they would claim victory in Cardiff for the first time since 2002 as John Barclay and Max Evans crossed in a breathless first 20. But Scotland finished with two men in the sin-bin as Wales hit back with Lee Byrne and Leigh Halfpenny tries. Stephen Jones levelled the game with a 79th-minute penalty, then Williams went under the posts for a famous victory. Chris Paterson took the field ahead of his Scotland team-mates at the Millennium Stadium, deservedly receiving generous applause from both sets of supporters ahead of winning his 100th cap. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Wales' line-out had misfired badly in the defeat at Twickenham last week but hooker Gareth Williams - given a second chance - ably hit his jumper at the first opportunity. That allowed the home side to launch a series of determined drives at the Scots' 22, but Shane Williams spilt the ball under pressure. Rory Lamont saw the space upfield and kicked long, only for lock Alun Wyn Jones - last week's Wales villain after his crucial sin-binning - to gallop back and hoover up the loose ball. Scotland retained good field position, though, and kept the pressure on their hosts. Andy Robinson's side had not scored a try in their past three internationals but put that statistic right within nine minutes as Barclay crashed over. Given quick ball, fly-half Parks slipped the ball left to find his open-side flanker at full pace. Max Evans slides in for Scotland's second try in a stunning first half Barclay barged between James Hook and Gareth Cooper all too easily to charge over, centurion Paterson adding the conversion to pass 100 points against Wales. A sublime break from Jamie Roberts in the centre got Wales going forward and, when Euan Murray was penalised at the resulting scrum, Stephen Jones kicked Wales onto the scoreboard. Parks replied with a snap drop-goal the next time Scotland got within range and then hit Wales with a second try. It all came from the restart as Rory Lamont spotted a gap in the Welsh chasers and hared through it. John Beattie took the move on down the right wing, the number eight sucking in four Wales tacklers before Scotland spun the ball left. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Wales had just enough numbers but Parks stabbed through a delicate grubber that Max Evans - on as a blood replacement for brother Thom - raced through to touch down for an unconverted try. Fly-half Jones added a second penalty for Wales but Parks matched him to keep Scotland 18-6 ahead. Parks, the Glasgow stand-off handed the 10 shirt for this match who will join Cardiff Blues next season, had taken over the place-kicking duties from Paterson. The Scotland full-back had been unable to shake off an early knock and the centurion sadly had to limp off early, replaced by Max Evans who slotted in at centre with Sean Lamont dropping to full-back. Parks nearly added a second drop-goal but fired just wide under pressure from Wales open-side Martyn Williams, as Scotland looked to extend their advantage. A brave run by Thom Evans saw the Scotland wing suffer a serious-looking back injury as he was tackled and the game was paused for a worrying five minutes before the youngster was stretchered off. As well as the obvious concern for Evans, the injury left Scotland having to employ back-up scrum-half Mike Blair as an emergency wing. Wales finished the half strongly, with a mixture of misplaced last passes and fierce defence keeping the Scotland line intact. Wales did at least reduce their deficit to 18-9 before half-time, Jones adding his third penalty when Murray was again penalised at the scrum by referee George Clancy. Byrne gifted Scotland three points from the restart as the Lions full-back was caught trying to run out of defence and held on in the tackle, Parks kicking the penalty. Scotland should have claimed a third try soon after as they broke down the left to send flanker Kelly Brown away, only for Sean Lamont's final pass to be ruled forward. Wales coach Warren Gatland had already swapped Richie Rees for Cooper at scrum-half and wasted no time in using more reinforcements, Gethin Jenkins, Huw Bennett and Bradley Davies all entering the fray. Wales found a new impetus and for the first time Scotland looked uncomfortable in defence. Blair found himself ganged up on as Wales attacked down the right wing and wing Williams and Hook combined superbly to send Byrne over. Fly-half Jones missed the difficult conversion but Wales were back to within a converted try. Lee Byrne's second-half try began the comeback for Wales Jenkins' 73rd cap was short-lived as the prop's calf injury saw him leave the field within a handful of minutes so Paul James, who had given Murray so much trouble at the scrum, returned. While Scotland were looking less sure in the backs, up front they were matching Wales blow for blow, with Kelly Brown outstanding alongside his two back-row colleagues. Shane Williams prevented what seemed a certain try when the diminutive wing somehow out-jumped both Kelly and Rory Lamont for Parks' up-and-under. But Jones' clearing kick was fielded by Parks on halfway and the Scotland fly-half released a huge drop-goal to give them a 24-14 lead with 14 minutes remaining. Have your say on the game Wales hammered away at the Scottish line, who conceded a stream of penalties but survived any cardings from a patient referee Clancy. Over-eagerness by Wales saw the forwards pile over the top at a ruck and Scotland briefly cleared their lines. But Scotland infringed one time too many and replacement hooker Scott Lawson was sin-binned to leave the visitors down to 14 men with six minutes left. The extra man seemed to have told when Roberts burst through, only for Wales to be called back for blocking in the build-up. It was a brief reprieve, however, as Halfpenny sped away down the right to score in the corner, Jones converting to set up a thrilling last three minutes. Byrne raced clear and seemed set to win it for Wales, only for Phil Godman to cynically trip the full-back. Godman was immediately sin-binned, leaving Scotland with 13 men on the field, and Jones levelled the scores at 24-24 from the resulting penalty. That seemed to be that with time up, but Wales kept the ball alive against the tiring Scots as the numbers told and wing Williams - arm raised triumphantly aloft - went under the posts. Wales: Byrne, Halfpenny, Hook, J. Roberts, S. Williams, S. Jones, Cooper, P. James, G. Williams, A. Jones, Thomas, A. Jones, Powell, M. Williams, R. Jones.  Replacements: R. Rees for Cooper (41), Jenkins for P. James (49), Bennett for G. Williams (49), B. Davies for Powell (49), Warburton for M. Williams (68). Not Used: Bishop, Shanklin. Scotland: Paterson, T. Evans, S. Lamont, Morrison, R. Lamont, Parks, Cusiter, Dickinson, Ford, Murray, Hamilton, Kellock, Brown, Barclay, Beattie.  Replacements: M. Evans for Paterson (30), Blair for T. Evans (36), Godman for R. Lamont (73), MacDonald for Parks (79), Jacobsen for Dickinson (57), S. Lawson for Ford (59), R. Gray for Hamilton (78).     