Like other British anthems, it has not been established as a national anthem by law, but it has been used as a national anthem at official governmental ceremonies, including the opening of the Welsh Assembly, and at receptions of the British monarchy since the 1970s.
www.bbc.co.uk/wales/music/sites/anthem/pages/anthem-background.shtml
The tune Glan Rhondda (Banks of the Rhondda) was composed by James James (Iago Ap Ieuan, 1833-1902), a harpist who often played in the inns of Pontypridd, one day in January 1856 as he walking along the river bank in his hometown.  On returning home he sang it to his father, Evan James (Ieuan Ap Iago, 1809-1878), asking him to write some words for it. By the following day Evan had completed three verses.  Some believe Evan James to have composed the words before his son wrote the melody, though this is far from certain. The original title, Glan Rhondda, follows a trend for hymnal music common at the time.  A week later, it was performed by Elizabeth John from Pontypridd, in the vestry of Tabor Chapel, Maesteg. Over time it gained popularity, initially in the locality but soon spreading across Wales.  The earliest copy of Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau is found in a manuscript collated by James James, containing instrumental and choral work composed between 1849 and 1863. It is the only piece in the manuscript credited to James, although his adaptation of God Save The Queen with a verse in Welsh is also featured.  The manuscript today forms part of the collections of the National Library of Wales, Aberystwyth.  The song became better known still after the 1858 Langollen Eisteddfod. Thomas Llewelyn from Aberdare compiled a volume of unpublished Welsh airs for a competition entry. The adjudicator, John Owen, asked for permission to include Glan Rhondda in his 1860 collection, Gems Of Welsh Melody.  Alaw's collection gave the song its more famous title, and sold in quantities sufficient to ensure the anthem's popularity across Wales. At the Bangor Eisteddfod in 1874 it was sung by Robert Rees, one of the day's leading Welsh soloists.  Increasingly sung at patriotic gatherings, Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau gradually developed into Wales' national anthem, although it is neither officially or legally recognised as such.