It uncovered a number of graves that date from the battle, as well as others buried there during the 1801 invasion.
www.bbc.co.uk/history/british/empire_seapower/women_nelson_navy_05.shtml
Attitudes then and now The Royal Navy of Nelson's period has generally been painted in terms of men being pressed into service against their will, living in hellish conditions, and being tyrannised with the lash. As one historian has put it, the sailors toiled on a sort of 'floating concentration camp'. It would seem unlikely, however, that men pressed and beaten into servitude would provide the manpower that delivered such crushing victories as the battles of the Nile (1798) and Trafalgar (1805), and current research is doing much to re-cast the lives of the men and women of the lower deck. This new perspective shows a much more complex, rounded picture of life in Nelson's Navy. In Nelson's time Admiralty Regulations stated that women were not allowed to be taken to sea ... In Nelson's time Admiralty Regulations stated that women were not allowed to be taken to sea and that '... no women be ever permitted to be on board but such as are really the wives of the men they come to, and the ship not too much pestered even with them'. Whatever the rulebook said, however, it is nevertheless clear that women did travel aboard Nelson's ships - and in large numbers, although senior officers were not necessarily in favour of this. When a great personal friend of Nelson, Admiral Cuthbert Collingwood, discovered that women had been brought onboard his flagship, he ordered the women ashore because of '... the mischief they never fail to create wherever they are'. He also wrote that 'I never knew a woman brought to sea in a ship that some mischief did not befall the vessel'. The Earl Saint Vincent, another friend of Nelson's, was also against women coming to sea, largely due to their washing their clothes in the ship's fresh water. In our own day, following some passionate debate, official attitudes towards women serving onboard Royal Navy vessels have recently changed. In 1993 women were officially allowed to go to sea onboard Royal Navy vessels, and the current Equal Opportunities Policy of the Royal Navy states that: 'As a result of changes to employment practice from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s, the percentage of women entering the Armed Forces doubled, and today 20 per cent of officer entrants are female'.  In Nelson's navy, warrant officers were the ship's specialist officers, and included the carpenter, gunner, cooper, purser and master (the person responsible for the ship's navigation and sailing). Their name comes from the fact that they received a warrant from the Admiralty, rather than a commission, which is what the captain and his lieutenants received. A number of these men took their wives and children to sea with them. The presence of the women was largely hidden, for official purposes, as they were not paid or fed by the Navy, and therefore were not entered onto the ships' muster books. However other records, such as order books written by ships' captains, refer to their existence, as do memoirs and records of courts martial. The presence of the women was largely hidden, for official purposes ... The story of George Casey, his wife, and Nicholas Maeger is a good example. On Friday 5 January 1797, Commodore Horatio Nelson was presiding over the court martial of Lieutenant Nicholas Meager of HMS Dromedary. Lieutenant Meager was charged by George Casey, the ship's Master, because he '... took hold of me by the nose and pulled with all his strength', in public view on the deck of the ship. Prior to the attack one witness recalled that 'I was walking on the larboard [left] side of the quarter deck, Mr Casey and his wife were walking on the starboard [right] side, the prisoner [Meager] came out of his cabin and as he passed Mrs Casey he spit in her face'. It is not recorded why Maeger spat in Mrs Casey's face, but this record attests to the fact that a warrant officer had his wife with him while at sea, was promenading with her in public view, and the court saw nothing unusual in this. And what is more, in a separate court martial also involving Casey and Maeger, it came to light that the Caseys also had a child, which stayed onboard with them.  Whenever Royal Navy ships of the period came into port, an armada of 'bumboats' immediately besieged them. Bumboats were small vessels that brought fresh vegetables, supplies and, most notoriously, prostitutes and drink to the warships. In port, most ships' captains allowed prostitutes onboard, and the men were in any case already issued with large quantities of drink - the standard allowance was a gallon of beer a man per day. If beer was not available, then a pint of wine or half a pint of spirits could be substituted. The warships of the day were very overcrowded, and each man was only allowed 14 inches in which to hang his hammock. Add large numbers of prostitutes to the overcrowding and heavy drinking, and the scenes below decks where the men lived must have been something to behold. A sailor wrote that, 'with the women came drink and what with the drink and the women the ship's discipline came to a stop. The men and women drank and quarrelled between the guns. The decks were allowed to become dirty. Drunken women were continually coming up to insult the officers, or to lodge some complaint. Sometimes the women ran aloft to wave their petticoats to the flagship'. Other women, disguised as men, are also known to have entered the Royal Navy, and to have served for some considerable time without detection. Much has been written about them, and while some of these stories are likely to be folk myths, there are a number of attested cases in which the women involved became minor celebrities. For instance Hanna Snell, the daughter of a dyer from Worcester, enlisted in the army in 1745, deserted, and then enlisted in the marines - who were shipboard soldiers (later to become the Royal Marines) who helped keep discipline onboard ship. Hanna saw action in this capacity, and was eventually badly wounded in both thighs. Despite this, her true sex was never identified, and she recovered from her wounds. In 1750 she revealed her true identity, became a celebrity and starred on the stage.  Royal Navy ships were constantly carrying passengers on board. These could be government officials coming or going to foreign stations, discharged invalids going home, or soldiers being transferred from one post to another - and a number of them were women. Out of every 100 men, three soldiers were allowed to bring their wives ... During the 1801 Egyptian campaign, over 60 Royal Navy vessels carried and escorted 12,000 troops to Aboukir Bay, Egypt, in an attempt to drive French forces out of Egypt. Out of every 100 men, three soldiers were allowed to bring their wives, which meant that there were at least 360 women in the fleet, as well as their children. These women and children are recorded in the ships' muster books. For instance the muster book of HMS Charon records that there were 30 women and 20 children onboard 'belonging to the 30th Regiment [now the Queen's Lancashire Regiment]'. After the successful landing in Aboukir Bay, many of the troopships were turned into hospital ships, and although some of the women and children left to join the army now camped ashore, many stayed on board ship, and volunteered to act as nurses to the sick and wounded. In appreciation of this, Admiral Lord Keith, the expedition's naval commander, allowed them to be fed from the ships' stores, and encouraged them to volunteer for this service. The Royal Navy of the time had a comprehensive health care system, which included compulsory vaccination against smallpox, free medical treatment for sailors, a sick bay and a surgeon on every ship - as well as an extensive network of hospitals and hospital ships. However, the nurses who attended the sick and wounded at these establishments had quite a bad reputation, and were continually being sacked for prostitution, drunkenness and helping the sailors desert. One sailor wrote that, '... those ladies are exceedingly bold and audacious ... I had a great deal to do to repulse the temptations I met with from these sirens'.  In 2000, Italian archaeologist Dr Paolo Gallo, while excavating Hellenistic and Pharaonic structures on Nelson's Island, Aboukir Bay, discovered a lost Royal Navy burial ground from Nelson's time. A British team was invited by Dr Gallo to excavate these burials, which subsequently revealed graves containing officers, sailors, soldiers, marines, women and children. A poignant discovery was that of three infants. Two were either stillborn or had died shortly after birth, and one had died at just a few months old. Each was buried in a wooden coffin, wrapped in a shroud held together with small bronze pins, and one had been carefully packed in wood shavings. ... women fought, nursed, accompanied their husbands ... and even enlisted in disguise to serve in Nelson's Navy Directly next to one infant was the grave of a woman in a wooden coffin, and it is likely that this was her child. She had been laid to rest in a dress, and her face had been covered with what looks like a handkerchief. On the coffin lid had been nailed a large metal letter 'G'. There are currently three possible candidates for this burial. John Nicol, one of Nelson's sailors who took part in the Battle of the Nile (1798), wrote that a woman from Leith, Scotland, was injured whilst serving the guns on HMS Goliath, subsequently died of her wounds, and was 'buried on a small island in the Bay'. Two other women from the army regiments from the 1801 expedition were recorded to have died on board the ships moored in Aboukir Bay. One was Mrs Lambe, of the 3rd Guards Regiment (now the Scots Guards), and the other was Sarah Webber of the Coldstream Guards. Any one of these could have merited the mysterious 'G' (standing perhaps for 'Goliath' or 'Guards'). The historical and archaeological record thus makes it clear that women fought, nursed, accompanied their husbands, gave birth, entertained and even enlisted in disguise to serve in Nelson's Navy. These findings have forced us to re-examine the social and organisational nature of Nelson's crews, and has painted a much fuller and more complex picture of those who inhabited the 'wooden world'.