Broadbent alone played more than a dozen characters in the play.
www.bbc.co.uk/lincolnshire/content/articles/2005/08/24/famous_yellowbelly_jim_broadbent_feature.shtml
Wickenby's most famous son received an Oscar for his portrayal of John Bayley in the film Iris in 2002. The Oscar for Best Supporting Actor was given out at the 74th annual star-studded awards ceremony.  Jim was also successful at the 2002 BAFTA ceremony where he beat off strong competition from fellow Brits Colin Firth (Bridget Jones's Diary) and Robbie Coltrane (Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone). He won in the Best Supporting Actor category for his role in Moulin Rouge.  Jim was born on 24th May, 1949 to Roy and Dee. The couple were part of a small community of conscientious objectors working the land rather than going to war.  Jim's father was a local artist and furniture maker and his mother was a keen amateur actress. They were also both founder members of the Lindsey Rural Players. It seems that acting was quite literally in Jim's blood.  Jim was raised in Lincolnshire before going to school in Reading and then on to the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts from where he graduated in 1972. Since then he has gone from strength to strength.  He has an enviable list of theatre, TV and film credits to his name. Jim began his career working in small-scale, regional theatre productions. His big break came in 1976 when he played more than a dozen different characters in Ken Campbell's Illuminatus, a 12 hour science-fiction play.  Unlike many actors, Jim did not have to wait too long before getting involved in films. Small roles started coming as early as 1978 and gradually increased in size and quantity. He made particularly noteworthy appearances in The Crying Game and Little Voice. More recently he has been seen in Bridget Jones's Diary (playing Bridget's father), Moulin Rouge (as Harold Zidler), and as John Bayley in Iris.  His mantelpiece must be groaning under the weight of all the awards that he has won. Alongside his Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe his wins include Volpi Cup for Best Actor and the Evening Standard Film Award for Best Actor, both of which he received for his role in Mike Leigh's film Topsy Turvy.