If the ball is spinning counterclockwise, it will curve right from the hitter's point of view and curve left if spinning clockwise.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/tennis/skills/4229090.stm
To be successful in the modern game players have to have an effective serve.  They have to be able to hit the ball hard but also with amazing accuracy.  The more points you can take on your serve with service winners and aces, the harder you will be to beat.  It is the one shot in tennis that you are in total control of, so do not waste the opportunity by rushing.  Spend time getting your set-up right and getting your mind focused on what you are trying to do and where you are trying to hit the serve.  Line your feet up with where you want the ball to go.  Have your front foot at an angle but have your back foot running parallel to the baseline.  Point your racquet forwards to the target and use your spare hand to balance by lightly supporting the throat of the racquet.  Ideally the grip should be the chopper grip.  This can be difficult to begin with, so it is fine to have a slight forehand grip, but look to move it around as soon as possible.  The key from here is balance, timing and rhythm.  Raise your hands up together just a short distance then bring them down together.  As you do this start to turn your body away from the court so that you are sideways onto it.  You also need to be transferring your weight from your front to back foot.  Try to feel a smooth, co-ordinated action, all the different parts of your body should be working together not against each other.  Once you have made the sideways turn and your hands have reached their lowest point, you need to separate your arms and bring them back up in different directions.  Your left arm should be straight to enable you to accurately throw the ball up in the correct spot.  The ball should be slightly in front of you and to a height about six inches above your outstretched racquet.  Your right arm needs to come back into a throwing position.  This is the most difficult part of the action because at the same time as co-ordinating your arms you need to transfer your weight from your back foot on to your front.  As the ball reaches the top of the throw up, accelerate the racquet head at the ball in a throwing action.  Look to reach up to the ball as you hit - the higher you make contact the more power you can generate.  Follow through across your body, then look to recover quickly ready for your next shot.