Around 186,000 advance tickets were sold, and the organizers anticipated approximately 200,000 festival-goers would turn up.
news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/august/18/newsid_2760000/2760911.stm
Thousands of young people are heading home after three days and nights of sex, drugs and rock and roll at the Woodstock music festival.  An estimated 400,000 youngsters turned up to hear big-name bands play in a field near the village of Bethel, New York state in what has become the largest rock concert of the decade.  About 186,000 tickets were sold so promoters anticipated that around 200,000 would turn up. But on Friday night, the flimsy fences and ticket barriers had come down and organisers announced the concert was free prompting thousands more to head for the concert.  Traffic jams eight miles long blocked off the area near White Lake, near Bethel, some 50 miles from the town of Woodstock.  Local police estimated a million people were on the road yesterday trying to get to Woodstock. They were overwhelmed by the numbers but were impressed by a good level of behaviour. The festival's chief medical officer, Dr William Abruzzi told Rolling Stone magazine: "These people are really beautiful. There has been no violence whatsoever which is really remarkable for a crowd of this size." Those who made it to the makeshift venue were treated to performances by Janis Joplin, The Who, Grateful Dead, Canned Heat, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, Jimi Hendrix, Joan Baez and Ravi Shankar. Rainstorms failed to dampen the spirits of the revellers, many high on marijuana, some dancing naked in the now muddy fields. The main organiser, 49-year-old dairy farmer Max Yasgur, who provided $50,000 and 600 acres of his land, addressed the crowds on the last day of the event. "You have proven something to the world... that half a million kids can get together for fun and music and have nothing but fun and music." There were however two deaths - a teenager was killed by a tractor as he lay in his sleeping bag and another died from a drugs overdose.