He scored as Liverpool went on to win the game 3–2.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/l/liverpool/1506424.stm
Liverpool made history as they became the first English club to lift five trophies in a calendar year by beating Bayern Munich to claim the 2001 Super Cup in Monaco.  And England coach Sven Goran Eriksson will have been delighted to see Michael Owen and Emile Heskey terrorise the Champions League winners' rearguard.  Owen and Heskey are hoping to figure in next week's crucial World Cup qualifier against Germany in Munich.  And they pressed their claims impressively when they were both on target as Liverpool raced into a 3-0 lead seconds after half-time - with Steven Gerrard also proving his fitness with a commanding midfield display.  Bayern staged a late comeback with two goals to leave Liverpool hanging on at the end, but Gerard Houllier's side fully deserved their win.  Liverpool have now added the Super Cup to the Charity Shield, FA Cup, Uefa Cup and Worthington Cup. And Liverpool's £4m summer signing John Arne Riise - back in Monaco after his move - got in on the act by opening the scoring. Liverpool fielded a virtually full strength side, but Bayern were without top international stars Mehmet Scholl, Stefan Effenberg and Jens Jeremies, all out injured. Owen was instrumental as Liverpool took the lead after 22 minutes. when he crossed for Riise to score at the far post. The England striker was in rampant mood and was only denied Liverpool's second by a fine block from Germany goalkeeper Oliver Kahn ten minutes later.  Liverpool did add a second on the stroke of half time, Dietmar Hamann sending Heskey charging into the box to calmly lift the ball over Kahn. The game looked to be over 13 seconds after half time, when Owen ran clear to beat Kahn for Liverpool's third. Bayern pulled a goal back when Hasan Salihamidzic headed home a corner from England new boy Owen Hargreaves. And the Germans got another goal back with nine minutes to go, when a ball from the right flicked off a defender and was sent looping over Sander Westerveld by towering substitute Carsten Jancker. But Liverpool were not to be denied - and rightly added to their trophy haul.