In 2004 Drummond admitted to the BBC that he now regretted burning the money.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/northern_ireland/3667901.stm
It's the obvious question to ask former KLF pop star Bill Drummond but almost a decade on, he still doesn't have an easy answer.  A trained visual artist, Drummond, 51, forged a reputation built on a series of art pranks which shocked and delighted in equal measures.  What about dumping dead sheep at the Brit Awards, giving £40,000 for the worst art in Britain to Rachel Whiteread on the same night she won the £20,000 Turner prize and, most infamously, burning £1m of the proceeds of pop fame on a remote Scottish island.  Drummond's latest project may be less dramatic, but it is equally eccentric - on every night of Belfast's Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival in May, he will go to someone's house and make soup for their family and friends.  He remains unclear whether this has any artistic significance, but says he hopes to find out in the future "or perhaps somebody will tell me".  "In 1998, I was asked to come over to Belfast to take part in an exhibition at a house up Botanic Avenue," he said.  "I decided not to put an exhibit in, but make soup for everyone in the house, as a kind of event and it went really well."  He says he has always enjoyed making soup, and took the idea a step further when a listings magazine in Nottingham asked him to provide a competition prize, "expecting a signed book or something".  "I decided that the prize should be me coming around to the winner's house to make soup for their friends and family," he said.  "It went really well, just the idea of turning up with my ingredients and pots and pans.  "I drove home that night, and in the larder door in the kitchen, I've got a map of the British Isles.  "I drew a line across the map through Belfast and Nottingham, and decided it should be the Soup Line. If anybody living on the line contacted me, I would come to their place and make them soup."  Drummond says he is fascinated by maps, especially borders between relatively newer countries which effectively are straight lines, like the one dividing the US and Canada.  He has been a regular visitor to Northern Ireland ever since he was a child growing up in Scotland.  "I come from near Stranraer in Galloway, and as a child, it was easier to come across to Belfast than go to Glasgow or Edinburgh for things like Christmas shopping - it was the nearest big city."  Drummond also owns property in the province - not your average ex-pop star's mock Tudor mansion but a fortified tower built in the 19th century, complete with a dungeon.  "It evolved into becoming an artists' residency, where they can get on with work there for two to four weeks at a time," he said.  In August 1994, the pair travelled to a boathouse in the Scottish island of Jura with £1m of money earned by KLF hits such as Justified and Ancient, 3AM Eternal and What Time is Love?  They lit a bonfire and burned the £50 notes, recording it for a film called Watch the K Foundation Burn a Million Quid.  "Of course I regret it - who wouldn't!" Drummond now says.  "My children especially regret it, but I don't regret it all the time.  "I remember once, one of my children came home from school and said 'somebody told me in the playground that you once burned a hundred quid - is it true?'  "I said, 'I wish that was true!'"  As with the Soup Line, Drummond says he is still waiting to be told the artistic significance of burning the money.  "A long time ago, we realised that everybody wanted us to have the smart answer, and we felt we owed it to people, especially our families, to have this.  "It was more for other people to take from it whatever they wanted, whether it be 'they obviously didn't do it' or 'it's a terrible thing' or whatever. It's for other people to explore."  Having written a book with Cauty called The Manual: How to Have A Number One The Easy Way, you might think that all he had to do to make the money back was release another single and have another hit.  The 1988 book came with a guarantee that if wannabes who followed their instructions to the letter failed to have a number one hit within three months, they would refund the price of the book.  Austrian duo Edelweiss did just that and sold two million copies of a single called Bring Me Edelweiss.  However, Drummond feels he would not be able to hit the top of the charts in 2004, partly because of his age.  "I know when I stopped doing pop music, if that's what it was, I made the decision to stop at a point when we were at a reasonable height and hadn't outstayed our welcome.  "Even if I followed The Manual to the word, it would be a disaster and an embarrassment," he said.  Despite his retirement from the music business, projects like the Soup Line are proof that Drummond has not lost the ability to surprise and confound people's expectations.  The Soup Line is part of the Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival. Running throughout Belfast until 9 May, it features a varied programme of events in music, comedy, theatre, literature, film, circus, street theatre and visual art.