He once arranged a game between Bank of England employees and ex-Villa players.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/gossip_and_transfers/5178820.stm
Manchester United assistant boss Carlos Queiroz has insisted Cristiano Ronaldo is staying at the club, despite the Portugal winger's agent twice speaking to the club's chief executive, David Gill, about a move. (Daily Mirror)  Patrick Vieira is unlikely to return to the Premiership this summer, even if his Italian club Juventus are relegated from Serie A. (The Sun)  Newcastle's bid to lure Chelsea winger Shaun Wright-Phillips on loan looks doomed. (The Sun)  Theo Walcott has been assured his future - long-term and short-term - is at Arsenal by manager Arsene Wenger and will not be sent out on loan. (Daily Express)  Although he might be loaned to a Championship club. (Daily Mail)  Real Madrid have agreed personal terms with Ruud van Nistelrooy, according to reports in Spain. (Daily Mail, Independent)  Chelsea are to push ahead with their interest in signing Roberto Carlos from Real Madrid, with the club's owner Roman Abramovich emerging as the driving force behind the deal. (The Independent)  Coventry are interested in Sheffield United striker Geoff Horsfield, 32, who has fallen out of favour with manager Neil Warnock. (Daily Telegraph)  Steve Sidwell will leave Reading for nothing next summer after being refused a move to Manchester City. (The Sun)  Gareth Southgate has vowed to find the right reinforcements for his team after seeing his big-money swoop for Robert Huth collapse. (The Independent)  Charlton hope to sign Aussie international Scott Chipperfield from FC Basel. (The Sun)  Bolton will attempt to bolster their defensive ranks with the signings of Abdoulaye Meite and Djimi Traore from Marseille and Liverpool respectively. (The Guardian)  Bolton boss Sam Allardyce is poised to sign Iran World Cup player Andranik Teymourian. (The Sun)  Spanish side Espanyol say they have struck a £750,000 deal for Sunderland wing-back Julio Arca. (The Sun, Express)  Blackburn have rejected Portsmouth's £4m bid for Ryan Nelson. (The Sun)  Rangers will renew their attempts to sign Austria Vienna's Slovakian striker Filipo Sebo. (Daily Record)  John Wilson, victim of the tackle which saw Kenny Miller sent off in Celtic's loss to DC United, described it was a "really scary moment". (Daily Record)  Aberdeen midfielder Scott Severin will only be sidelined for a month after successful knee surgery. (Daily Record)  Rangers new boy Jeremy Clement is the new Didier Deschamps, according to former boss Gerard Houllier who added he was a "bargain". (Daily Record)  Ashley Cole has refused to invite Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger to his glitzy wedding on Saturday. (The Sun)  Reading chief John Madejski has branded the Premiership as greedy and obscene. (Daily Mirror, Express)  Italy's World Cup-winning coach Marcello Lippi has moved a step closer to Old Trafford by taking intensive English lessons. (The Sun)  Rangers owner David Murray has suggested he might be willing to sell the club by 2009. (Various)  Forgotten man Darren Fletcher is worried he might stay in the background at Manchester United if he doesn't sparkle on their pre-season tour of South Africa. (Daily Mirror, Express)  Southampton have asked former BBC chairman Gavyn Davies to commit to a major investment in the club. (The Guardian)  Saints have assured England's Rugby World Cup-winning coach Sir Clive Woodward that he has a bright future with the club. (The Guardian)  If nicknames are necessary, Arsenal new boy Tomas Rosicky wants to be known as 'Little Mozart' and not 'Dumpling'.  The latter sobriquet was shouldered on him at Borussia Dortmund when he was told to bulk up. "People were always teasing me to eat more to gain weight," the 25-year-old explained. "I didn't like it."  'Little Mozart' it is then. "That comes from the technical way I play," the Czech Republic international added.  Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of England, is a die-hard Aston Villa fan.  On Sunday he wil host a charity match in the grounds of Threadneedle Street between bank employees and Villa veterans, including Gordon Cowans, Tony Morley and Dennis Mortimer from the 1982 European Cup-winning side.