This proposed scheme was highly controversial and resulted in strong differences in opinion between TfL, who supported the scheme, and local councils throughout the proposed route, who all took a 'no tram' stance.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/london/4308321.stm
Questionnaires by 17,000 people showed 59% were against the scheme. But market research by Transport for London (TfL) showed the reverse with 54% in support.  Tories have accused Ken Livingstone of commissioning the TfL survey to get the positive result he wanted.  The tram is set to run from Uxbridge to Shepherds Bush via Acton, Ealing, Hanwell and Southall town centres.  Mr Livingstone now looks set to push forward with the plans on the back of the market research results of 1,000 randomly selected people.  They showed just 18% opposed the scheme and 28% either knew too little about it or had no preference. The rest (54%) backed it.  The scheme, scheduled for completion in 2009, has to be agreed by Transport for London and the Secretary of State before going ahead.  Referring to the TfL survey, Mr Livingstone said: "With three times as many people supporting the tram as opposing it in west London, it is clear that this major transport investment has strong local support.  "The process confirmed there is strong support for the project but there are also significant issues."  Concerns raised by some of those in the consultation included loss of trees, congestion, disruption to shops and displacement of traffic on to residential streets.  TfL said it will take these concerns into account in order to help refine and improve the design of the scheme.  Opposition assembly members have accused Mr Livingstone of failing to listen to residents.  Richard Barnes, Conservative assembly member for Ealing and Hillingdon, said: "The majority of residents in west London do not want this scheme - and these figures make that perfectly clear.  "Why doesn't the Mayor do the sensible thing and scrap it?"  Lynne Featherstone, Liberal Democrat London Assembly spokesman said local residents believe the plans are "unworkable, unwanted and unpopular".