The BBC describes Jumblatt as "the leader of Lebanon's most powerful Druze clan and heir to a leftist political dynasty".
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/4348129.stm
The BBC News website profiles the most prominent figures on each side.  He is seen by many as the country's political weathervane - consistently emerging on the winning side through the twists and turns of the 1975-90 civil war and its troubled aftermath.  He was a supporter of Syria after the war but, since the death of strongman Hafez al-Assad in 2000, he has campaigned for Damascus to relinquish control. Jumblatt has spoken openly of the fear that he - like murdered former PM Rafik Hariri - may face assassination because of this stance.  He not only commands the loyalty of members of the Druze community - a secretive offshoot of Shia Islam whose adherents make up about 10% of the population - but is admired by members of other religious minorities in Lebanon.  Many supporters of the "Cedar revolution" - the protest in central Beirut calling for Syrian withdrawal - are also supporters of Aoun, who has continued to campaign against Damascus from his Paris home.  But his critics see him as a proponent of Christian supremacy in Lebanon.  He has said he will return to his homeland before elections this year, despite risking arrest for alleged offences during his period as a rebel prime minister and warlord.  But his powers to govern were severely circumscribed by the Israeli and Syrian occupation of most of his country.  He arrived back in Lebanon in 2000 after 12 years of self-imposed exile, to join the opposition to President Lahoud's pro-Syrian government. But he was expelled from the Phalange, which takes a more moderate view towards the Syrians now than in the past.  Gemayel hit the headlines in March 2003, when he launched a doomed eleventh-hour attempt to mediate a peaceful solution to the Iraq crisis.  He is now a member of the Qornet Shehwan group of Christian politicians dedicated to bringing about a withdrawal of Syrian forces  At the beginning of the 1990s he supported Syria's role against the rebel General Michel Aoun.  He began demanding Syrian withdrawal towards the end of the decade, before falling silent again just as anti-Syrian views were becoming more widespread.  He has backed the process whereby Damascus says it will withdraw its forces, but has also called for Lebanon to focus on its economic development rather than political rifts.  He was elected by parliament in 1998 after a Syrian-backed constitutional change - allowing public employees to stand for office. In 2004 Damascus steamrollered another amendment through parliament to give him a three-year extension in office.  This move triggered the current crisis that has split Lebanon into pro- and anti-Syrian camps. The divisions were exacerbated by the killing of Rafik Hariri in February, who had resigned from the prime ministership in protest over this issue.  Despite owing much to Iran and Syria for Hezbollah's original funding and its continuing logistical support, he has always assiduously played the Lebanese unity card.  Hezbollah took the credit in Lebanon for Israel's unconditional withdrawal from southern Lebanon in 2000. Since, Nasrallah has won plaudits by fostering national unity rather than indulging in Shia triumphalism.  This was particularly evident in the huge pro-Syrian rallies Hezbollah has organised - where not one of its distinctive yellow-and-green flags was visible in a sea of Lebanese red, white and green.  He rejects UN Resolution 1559, which calls for the withdrawal of non-Lebanese forces (ie Syria) and the disbanding of armed militias (ie Hezbollah), on the grounds that Syrian and Lebanese interests are linked and should not be decided by outside forces.  A lawyer by profession, he entered politics in 1987 after the death of his brother - the eight-time Arab nationalist prime minister Rashid Karami - who was killed in a bomb explosion on his helicopter while still prime minister.  He owes his position to backing from Damascus and is a staunch supporter of Syria's influence in Lebanon's politics.  As head of the Amal militia, whose stronghold is in his native southern Lebanon, Berri is seen as little more than a puppet of Syria.  The ascendancy of Hezbollah has eroded his position, but he remains a shrewd political operator and Damascus has continued to keep him at a comparable rank to his more illustrious Shia rival Nasrallah.