Then came a two by Abhijit – followed by six consecutive sixes.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/cricket/8106761.stm
Former India one-day international Abhijit Kale hit 39, including six straight sixes, in one over playing for a Kent League amateur side. Kale was playing at Catford for Linden Park when he emulated Gary Sobers' famous first - but it took nine balls. Kale explained: "He (Damion Grosscel) bowled three no balls. "I got a run off the first, my partner Michael Brown got a run off the second, with the third I got two, and after that I hit six consecutive sixes." Kale, 35, told BBC Radio Kent: "It's great to have my name associated with such a great man as Gary Sobers. "I never thought I'd achieve this and I'm really happy." Sobers was the first man to hit sixes off an over in first-class cricket off Malcolm Nash against Glamorgan at Swansea in 1968. The world record for runs off one over is held by Jonathan Hughes - who got 42, also in a club cricket match, for North Leeds in 2005. Kale insisted that Grosscel had actually been bowling very well until his figures were impaired by that 40 in the one over. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. "He was a left-arm fast bowler," said Kale. "And, initially, in 13 overs, he had only gone for 23 so he was very economical and bowled a very tidy spell. "When he came on for his second spell he didn't imagine and I couldn't imagine that this would happen. "Never in my life have I had six sixes. I was so happy. "Our captain Stuart Clarke asked him for a photo but I think he declined it." Tunbridge Wells-based side Linden Park went on to win by 113 runs, with Kale 152 not out. Kale played 14 years of first-class cricket, including several tours with the India A side and two one-day internationals for India. "In India I once had the fastest 50 to my name," he said, "but that was way back in 1995/96." Linden Park's next game is against Wickham Park. And Kale admits that he will be under pressure to perform well again because of the publicity his magic over has attracted. "I'm getting a lot of media attention in India as well," he said, "so of course the pressure will be there."     