It remains one of the most famous clubs in Northern England.
www.bbc.co.uk/manchester/going_out/clubbing/2003/08/21/wigan_casino.shtml
Well this weekend is your chance to prove you know what you're talking about as one of the north's most famous clubs celebrates its 30th anniversary. When Wigan Casino first opened its doors in 1973 it was the original venue for those young things who didn't fit in with the mainstream.A generation who didn't relate to soft rock and pretty boy pop, whose desire to dance all night to obscure American soul music pushed them as far underground as the local miners. It enjoyed a brief fling with the media in the late seventies and then disappeared again,maintained by the faithful until its final demise in 1983 but the legend lives on and revived by the current advertising trend for nostalgia its 30th anniversary this weekend is being broadcast live on Radio 2 and courted by everyone from the tabloid press to international tv! So if you want to catch the real Northern Soul experience, ditch all those dodgy pretender nights and check out one of the celebration events. But not until you've listened to the man responsible for it all - Casino founder Russ Winstanley.Click here Russ remains a Northern Soul man and hosts a show on BBC GMR every Saturday lunchtime playing classic oldies and Motown.   But if that's not enough to satisfy your lust for all things soulful then here's our guide to Northern in a nutshell! Northern Soul was a phrase coined by journalist Dave Godin back in the early 70s to describe the phenomenon of young white soul enthusiasts who wanted to dance all night to obscure sixties soul music.   Its longevity is based on the passion of its fans and the obsession with finding that 'elusive' rare record!  Dancing plays a major part in the scene but if you can't shake your thang don't worry 'cos original and individual style is positively encouraged.  Clothes and appearance are important, scruffy gits won't feel at home nor will people who've had one too many shandys - the bar shuts early!   Most Northern Soul punters are wary of mainstream media interest but accept that to keep the scene alive they need to attract new blood. Things not to ask about Northern Soul -    "Scuse me mr DJ do you play any of those tunes on the new Woolies compilation?   "Is everybody over thirty five in here?"   "Do you still go to Wigan?" What do you want to do now? See an interview with Northern's new kid on the block! The BBC is not responsible for the content of external websites.