Two others, aged 14 and 16, did not participate but helped prevent her escape.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/london/7779620.stm
Anonymity was lifted on seven of the nine gang members A schoolgirl who was raped by a teenage gang believes she may not have been their only victim. The 14-year-old told how some of the nine boys bragged about how they had attacked others girls during her assault in Hackney, east London. All nine have been given detention orders for the rape on 30 April 2007. Speaking on Radio 4's Today programme the victim said her life has been destroyed and is "being punished for something I haven't done". She said: "I can't go out, I can't really do anything. "Everything I used to do, like going shopping and ice skating, I can't do that now because of all the crowds. I've got a fear of crowds and gangs of people." Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Last week, the nine gang members responsible were jailed for her rape, kidnap and false imprisonment. Judge Wendy Joseph QC lifted an anonymity order and named the seven members of the gang led by O'Neil "Hitman" Denton. All were aged between 14 and 17. The girl said during the two-hour attack the boys said it was not the first time they had gang-raped someone. "They were bragging how they had done it to other girls and how they had got away with it and it is not going to them," she said. Talking about the assault, she said: "They pushed me off into the corner and they were saying again I was to do what they wanted and when I said 'No, I'm not doing it', they were threatening me with the knife and the other boy was kicking me. "They were saying if you just do what we want, then you can go. "You think about it - you think, well, they've got a knife, there's four of them, you can't really do nothing and if that's the only way, then you have to do it and so I did what they wanted. Some of the boys denied being involved "I was begging them and saying 'Please, I'm still a virgin' and they said, 'You ain't going to be one any more, are you?"' She also criticised two passers-by who saw what was happening but did nothing. The assault was eventually ended by an older gang member who then gave evidence for the prosecution at the boys' trial. Her attackers, Denton and Weiled Ibrahim, 17, who admitted rape, kidnap and false imprisonment were given indeterminate detention orders and told they would have to serve a minimum of three years and eight months before becoming eligible for parole. Yusuf Raymond, 16, pleaded guilty to the same charges, and received a nine-year sentence. Jayden Ryan, 16, was given eight years, Alexander Vanderpuije, 15, six years, Jack Bartle, 16, six years, and Cleon Brown, 15, six years. The last two, aged 14 and 16, who still cannot be named, did not physically attack the girl but helped prevent her escaping. They were also given detention orders.