Although Euros Childs and Richard James would spend time working on separate projects for a while, the band did not announce their formal split until May 2006.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/5022382.stm
The four core members of the band, who formed at school in 1991, announced the break up on their website on Friday.  Lead singer Euros Childs and guitarist Richard James had already gone solo, both releasing critically-acclaimed albums in 2006.  Radio 1 DJ and long-standing fan Huw Stephens said the band was "amazing" adding their split was "amicable".  The message on their official website reads: "Gorky's Zygotic Mynci have decided to call it a day and split up.  "Richard, Megan, Euros and Pete would like to thank everyone who came to the gigs and bought the records over the years.  "The re-issues of the first three Gorky's albums - Patio, Tatay, and Bwyd Time - will go ahead as planned and will be released before late 2006."  Stephens, who said Gorky's were one of his favourite bands, described the split as "a shame" but said the members, two of whom are siblings, would remain friends.  "All good things must come to an end. But they'll still be friends. Nothing nasty will have happened between them," he said.  "It is a shame but their back catalogue is massive - an incredibly diverse and eclectic collection.  "They were always criminally-ignored by the music industry. They are an amazing band.  "In my opinion they are one of the best bands Britain has ever produced."  Stephens said it was likely new fans of Euros Childs and Richard James' work would have the chance to rediscover early Gorky's work thanks to the re-issuing of their early albums  "Euros and Richard have just released their solo debut albums and they've both had an amazing response," he said.  Gorky's formed in 1991 at Ysgol Bro Myrddin in Carmarthen when lead singer Childs was just 15.  Childs' sister Megan, a violinist, joined the band in 1994 and Pete Richardson joined six years ago when Gorky's needed a drummer.  Regarded as among the most original bands in Welsh music, Gorky's were celebrated for their eclectic collections of pop, folk and psychedelia.  They recorded nine studio albums together and released a singles collection in February 2003.  They were also one of the late John Peel's favourite bands and were frequently invited to record sessions for his Radio 1 shows.  Childs released his first solo album Chops in February. James released his debut effort The Seven Sleepers Den in May.