His 38 points was the most in one match for a Wigan player in the Super League era.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_league/super_league/8530794.stm
Richards is the top points scorer in this season's Super League Pat Richards broke Wigan's record for most points in a Super League match as the early league leaders thrashed winless Catalans. Richards scored five tries, four in the first half, and kicked nine goals to rack up 38 points - six more than Andy Farrell against Huddersfield in 2000. Sean O'Loughlin and Darrell Goulding also crossed in the opening 40 minutes as Warriors led 36-0 at the break. Thomas Leuluai and two George Carmont tries completed the rout. With Wakefield losing at St Helens, Wigan are now the only team with a 100% record in this season's Super League. And there was no question that the star of the show in making it four wins out of four for the Warriors was winger Richards as he took his points tally for the season to 70. His 38 points also took him into second place in the Super League record books for most points in a match, behind Iestyn Harris, who scored 42 for Leeds against Huddersfield in July 1999. Surely there can't be an overseas signing better than Richards in SL history    Richards scored every one of Wigan's opening 18 points, starting his tally from Carmont's clever offload. A good move involving Mark Riddell, Sam Tomkins and Amos Roberts sent him over for his second, before Carmont claimed the assist for Richards' hat-trick try. O'Loughlin touched down Tomkins' grubber kick and then turned provider for Goulding to touch down in the corner. Richards resumed centre stage just before the break when he grounded Tomkins' beautifully flighted kick, and the onslaught continued after a slow start to the second half by the home side, not helped by an injury to O'Loughlin. Carmont went over after a neat offload from Phil Bailey and then grabbed his second after intercepting on halfway. But it was only fitting that Richards completed the scoring when he outpaced the Dragons defence, even if he went on to miss his only conversion attempt of the night. Wigan coach Michael Maguire on Pat Richards:   "He was great tonight and I felt for him when he hit the post with that last kick. "He would have ended up with 10 out of 10 but Paddy had a great game tonight. "That's credit to him. He's working very hard and the performances are coming out." Catalans coach Kevin Walters:   "I just feel embarrassed for the club. "We just have to look forward to next week now because there's not a lot we can get out of tonight, except a lot of embarrassment. "My attitude doesn't change if we win or we lose. We'll work hard again next week and see how we go. "Obviously we'll try and do a bit better than we did this week."     