He also mentioned that medicines are easier to obtain in Pakistan, with little information available about the quality of the medicines.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2006/12_december/06/cricket.shtml
Acquitted Pakistani fast-bowler speaks out on treatment of team    Mohammad Asif claims that the Pakistani cricket team face dificulties in the sport due to their religion. Asif gave the BBC Asian Network his reaction to the decision of an appeal tribunal which yesterday lifted bans imposed on him and Pakistan Test colleague Shoaib Akhthar after testing positive for a banned steroid. Asif talked about the treatment of the Pakistani team suggesting that being Islamic means the Pakistan team run into "problems". Asked by Asian Network presenter Anita Rani if he thought the Pakistani cricket team got "picked on" when playing abroad, Asif responded: "Yeah treatment is going to be different because we know that there is a religion problem and other problems." Asif continued: "I think it's a very good thing [that the Pakistani team pray together before a game]." Earlier in the interview he defended his team's conduct saying: "Yes in the last two, three months the Pakistani cricket team have had a lot of scandals, the umpire scandal then after that straight away our chairman changed... but now it's ok." He was asked: "How can you actually explain the presence of the drug in your body?" Asif replied: "I don't know really, because you know Asian countries - no awareness in Asian countries. I don't know really how that can have happened... "Some protein and vitamins, I was in England tour in between and I was injured and used too many medicines so I think it all happened about these things... "The problem is in Pakistan the medical point of view is not very good because if you want to go and buy a medicine you can go and buy that and you don't know if it's really good medicines or if it's proper." The BBC Asian Network is available on digital, online and on MW frequencies in the Midlands.