It praised the humor and menace displayed in the library scenes.
www.bbc.co.uk/cult/buffy/indetail/graduationone/reviews.shtml
      There are definite indications that fatigue is closing in as the series reaches its finale. A strange mood shrouds the first two thirds of the episode: the performances are unusually stilted; the dialogue is peppered with woefully poor lines, and all the show’s rhythms seem adrift. If this was an effort to create an ominous tone, in order to build tension, it isn’t terribly successful. It takes an inordinate amount of time before the gears click into place: the pace only begins to pick up as the climactic showdown between Buffy and Faith begins. Although the individual pieces never quite seem to fit together, Graduation Day - Part 1 provides some very memorable scenes to relish: Faith’s chilling cold-blooded murder of Professor Worth is an event that would have been almost inconceivable a few episodes ago; "evil girl" Anya’s romantic scene with Xander (“When I think that something could happen to you it feels bad inside, like I might vomit”) is very funny, and demonstrates the character’s potential. There’s a commendable atmosphere of genuine menace during the scene where the mayor ("call me Richard") visits the library. The funniest moment in the episode, though, is the scene in the library, when Giles and Xander unfold the illustration of Olvikan. Graduation Day - Part 1 seems half-hearted. For all its hints of what the Ascension might entail, we know that it’s eventually going to be something that the show is going to have to achieve with a TV-show size budget. The episode ends on a note that demonstrates the lack of energy present: Buffy knows that she needs the blood of a Slayer to cure Angel. She’s tracked Faith down, has mortally wounded her in a bruising confrontation, and yet she watches, apparently helpless, as Faith quietly escapes on the back of a lorry…       Vote - what did you think of this episode?    You don't have permission to access /cgi-bin/vote.pl on this server. The Killer In Me Get It Done All the Way Once More, with Feeling Older and Far Away As You Were Two to Go Out of my Mind I Was Made To Love You The Weight of the World Who Are You? Where the Wild Things Are When She Was Bad I Only Have Eyes for You Welcome to the Hellmouth Never Kill A Boy on a First Date Out of Mind, Out of Sight    Buffy the Vampire Slayer in the UK on BBC 2. Buffy the Vampire Slayer copyright Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation. All rights reserved. The requested URL /cgi-bin/call_tip3/cult/buffycutouts/ was not found on this server.