The case of Andrei Chikatilo is one of several included within this documentary.
genome.ch.bbc.co.uk/c9c17b2acfa345f2891df5f9a5582c8f
Tonight's film travels to Rostov in Russia, a city that has earned the reputation of serial-killer capital of the world. Inside Story meets top psychiatrist   Dr Alexander Bukhanovsky and investigates his continuing efforts to unlock the inner mind of the serial killer.   See today's choices.   Producer James Kent : Series editor Olivia Lichtenstein   Digital widescreen      Hidden clues: brain scans on a psychotic patient reveal the Inside Story to Dr Alexander Bukhanovsky   Factual   Inside Story   9.30pm BBC1   No city wishes to be known as the serial-killer capital of the world, but it is a label that Rostov-on-Don in Russia has had to live with. This profoundly disturbing film looks at the work of Rostov psychiatrist Dr Alexander Bukhanovsky, who believes he can identify fledgling serial killers and work with them to prevent them progressing to murder.   Bukhanovsky, through his profiling of serial killers, has produced a blueprint for the type of personality that could go on to take many lives. At his clinic, he counsels 12 such young men, and we get to witness these chilling encounters. Edward, 17, describes taking the decision to dig up fresh graves to satisfy his desire for necrophilia. Misha, 22, who has already viciously attacked one woman and raped another two, thinks that all gypsies should be shot, children first. Bukhanovsky has made a promise to his clients that he won't report their previous crimes, a decision that makes him a controversial figure with the Russian authorities.  Tell us more Do you know something about this programme that we have not included above? Use the box below if you know of any additional or different details about the programme – at present the synopsis and contributor list will just reflect what is in Radio Times magazine. We will retain all information for possible future use, to fill in gaps in data and to help us bring the BBC’s broadcast history to life, but we will not be publishing it at this stage. If there is something you wish to ask us, please email GenomeFeedback@bbc.co.uk – please note we can only answer queries through this address.