He scored once for Sheffield United, in a 2–2 draw with Bolton Wanderers in November 2006.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/6116250.stm
The second-half substitute made Bolton keeper Jussi Jaaskelainen pay for a poor clearance with a cool curling shot from the right side of the area.  El-Hadji Diouf gave Bolton the lead with a firm strike before Kevin Davies added the second with a low drive.  Rob Hulse made it 2-1 when he headed in Mikele Leigertwood's right-wing cross.  The Blades were looking for their second successive Premiership win following victory over beleaguered Newcastle at St James' Park last week.  United did go close through two Chris Morgan headers, but it was largely one-way traffic towards their own goal.  Kevin Nolan saw his half-volley fizzle just wide of Paddy Kenny's left-hand upright before a low volley from the sprightly Idan Tal was deflected narrowly off target.  Defender Morgan was then kept busy at his own end, blocking Davies' shot after the striker dawdled inside the penalty area.  The Trotters were finally rewarded for their endeavour when Diouf, who was predictably jeered by the opposition fans, collected Pedersen's long ball before brushing past Phil Jagielka and tucking in his side's opener.  Tal made Kenny produce an outstanding save from his volley before he turned provider for the second goal.  606 DEBATE: Give your thoughts on the match  Following a sparkling move the Israel international teed the ball up for Davies, who then drilled home from the edge of the area low into Kenny's bottom right-hand corner.  At 2-0 down it appeared all over for one of the relegation favourites but Warnock's men were not ready to give in so easily.  Midfielder Leigertwood sped down the left to deliver a wicked ball into Hulse who bulleted home his header.  The men in red and white had come to life and they made Bolton pay again within three minutes.  Jaaskelainen failed to get any sort of clearance from the edge of the area and when Christian Nade laid off the ball to Kazim-Richards, the former Brighton man kept his cool to curl in his shot past Bolton's defence and the despairing dive of their keeper.  The Blades held on to the point thanks to an excellent point-blank save by Kenny from Abdoulaye Faye's shot late on.  "You have to give our lads credit. We put them under pressure and then fought back. And you have to give the fans credit, they were marvellous.  "There were two world class saves from Paddy Kenny, especially the second."  "Our defenders should have adjusted to what they were going to do. There was a little bit of panic in our defending.  "We also missed more chances then we scored and Paddy Kenny made two world class saves, but having gone 2-0 up we should not have relinquished the lead."