It was released on 5 June 2006, and entered the UK Singles Chart at number 3.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/4927990.stm
World at Your Feet, which is released on 5 June, received its first radio play on BBC Radio 1.  Singer Danny McNamara said he was inspired by the nation's love of football when the team does well.  The song features the lyrics "there's no-one you can't beat" and "you know it's going to be our time" but does not mention the word "football".  He said: "There's 'You lift it up with one proud kiss', which is obviously about lifting the cup.  "Then there's 'You're the first in my life to think we might just go all the way'.  "I wasn't born in 1966 but I think they have got every chance."  McNamara said the band had been "very, very nervous" about unveiling their effort.  He said they would play it to the England players for the first time on Sunday.  "They haven't heard it yet, but we are playing the PFA awards so we'll get a chance to play it to them then," he said.  "We hope they like it. We did it wholeheartedly so we hope they like it."  The band are yet to record a video to accompany the song but hope the likes of David Beckham and Wayne Rooney will join them if they perform on Top of the Pops.  McNamara said he was not intimidated by comparisons to previous favourites like Three Lions and New Order's World in Motion.  He said: "New Order are one of my favourite bands. Joy Division, the band before New Order, were one of the reasons I got into forming a band.  "There's been some classic songs and you can't really be compared to them yet because people haven't had a chance to listen to it.  "Those songs become classics when people take them into their hearts and I just hope people do (with ours)."  The band will give the first televised performance of the song on Match of the Day 2 on BBC Two on Sunday.  Virgin Radio's Christian O'Connell is releasing an unofficial song called the People's Anthem, featuring former footballer John Barnes, while singer Joe Fagin has re-recorded his 1984 hit That's Livin' Alright.