Government restrictions on how potential tenants were allocated to flats and the limitations of the fabric of the building which decayed when not adequately maintained, poor noise insulation and resident security caused their popularity to wane.
www.bbc.co.uk/southyorkshire/content/articles/2007/03/07/park_hill_feature.shtml
Cholera, typhus, no sewerage system, one standpipe per hundred people… the Park area of Sheffield had the worst slums in Sheffield in the 19th century.  Broadly speaking, Park Hill is the area from Park Square roundabout, up Duke Street and on the hill behind Sheffield station.  It consisted of old quarries, waste ground, steep alleyways and back-to-back terraces around courtyards but nineteenth century public health acts called for Britain's slums to be cleared.  A drastic alternative was needed to re-house the large population of a close-knit community so design work for the new flats to fit the bill began in 1945 by architects Jack Lynn and Ivor Smith.  Building work started in 1957 and when the flats were completed in 1961 they were hailed as the most ambitious inner city development of their time.  To maintain the strong sense of community, neighbours were re-homed next door to each other, old street names were re-used (Gilbert Row, Long Henry Now, Norfolk Row and so on) and cobbles from the terraced streets surrounded the flats and paved the pathways down the hill to Sheffield station and tramlines.  :: Did you live in or near Park Hill? Tell us about it...  The flats also employed an early example of recyclable energy when they were built back in the sixties. A district heating system was installed whereby almost all rubbish could be put down a chute in the sink for it to be mashed up and converted to electricity in the bowels of the flats!  Built on one of Sheffield's seven hills, the flats were designed so that the roof line remains level despite the steeply sloping site. At the highest point of Park Hill (by Talbot Street), the flats are four stories high but at the bottom north end of the flats by Park Square roundabout, they're pretty high-rise at 13 stories.  A team of 12 caretakers employed by the council lived on-site until 2003, on call 24 hours a day to look after the building, pick up litter, collect rubbish, mend, fix, mow and more.  And Park Hill certainly has amazing views. You can see everything from Bramall Lane and Abbeydale Rd mosque to the Arts Tower and the Hallamshire Hospital, to the ski village. And beyond all that, the Peak District and Derbyshire Hills.  But by the 1980s Park Hill had become dilapidated and was no longer a popular place to live. Poor noise insulation, badly lit walkways and plenty of passages and alleys made perfect getaways for muggers.  Horror stories abounded: tales of drugs and muggings galore and even sniper-style air-gun shootings of children in their primary school playground. But residents and caretakers (in particular Grenville Squires who lived and worked on the estate a total of 26 years) believe that Park Hill had bad press and that many of the things it was accused of were actually stories from other notorious Sheffield estates like Hyde Park and Kelvin. "It was an easy scapegoat", said Grenville. "People can see it from town and so attribute all that bad stuff to Park Hill."  To Grenville, Park Hill is a grand old lady who's "come on hard times. She just wants to wash her face and put on a new frock, and she'll be out there!"  The flats were Grade II* listed in 1998 so there's no chance they'll be knocked down, and development company Urban Splash who intend to return the estate to its former glory over the next few years say they wouldn't want it to be knocked down even if it could be:  "And it's actually cheaper to keep Park Hill and refurbish it than if we built it new, by a good margin. If you demolished Park Hill you'd have enough landfill to fill four football stadia.  "And besides, getting rid of it is not a 'sustainable' solution, when it can be saved, repaired and made good again. All it needs is to be loved."