Despite suffering severe cuts after crashing his bicycle, he insisted on re-racing and secured second place in the event, before going on to win that edition of the programme.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/tv_and_radio/superstars/3091096.stm
During that time, 198 sportsmen and women took part, including some of the biggest names in sport.  The first line-up included Jackie Stewart and Bobby Moore, but it was lesser-known British hurdler David Hemery who took the plaudits.  Over the years Hemery appeared in nine Superstars programmes, winning three times and finishing runner-up on another three occasions.  Another athlete holds the record for most programme wins - pole vaulter Brian Hooper, who finished first six times.  Hooper is also the only British competitor to have won World Superstars, his triumph coming in 1982 in America.  And, sensationally, he was back in action in last year's series, putting all of his experience to use at the tender age of 50.  Brian Jacks is the other great Superstars champion of yesteryear, revolutionising the gym tests with his technique and power.  And who can forget Kevin Keegan falling off a bike at high speed?  The then-England international footballer was competing in European Superstars in Bracknell in 1976 when he fell of his bike in the cycling round.  Despite suffering severe skin cuts and abrasions, Keegan insisted on racing again and qualified for the final thanks to a second-place finish.  Keegan's astonishing demonstration of courage was complete when he won the final steeplechase event to win the programme.  Newcastle United legend Malcom McDonald confirmed his place in Superstars history when he completed the 100m in an astonishing 10.9 seconds in 1975.  The record stood for seven years until rugby league star Des Drummond ran the event in 10.85 seconds.  But McDonald proved he wasn't just a one trick pony - he also won the shooting event in Sweden with a near perfect 10-10-10-10-8 score, despite having never fired a pistol in his life!  In 1985, after 12 years and 86 shows, Superstars finally left our screens.  But in 2002, Sir Steven Redgrave, Gianluca Vialli and Dwight Yorke were among nine competitors who appeared in a one-off special for Sport Relief, with England rugby union star Austin Healey the eventual winner.  The show's success prompted the return of a brand new series the following year, with a whole new generation of sports stars taking part, including footballer Dennis Wise, cricketer Henry Olonga, boxer Ricky Hatton and former world champion hurdler Colin Jackson.  Track star Du'aine Ladejo eventually claimed victory in the men's final, while swimmer Zoe Baker and snowboarder Lesley McKenna came joint-first in the women's special.