Most of the original cast returned along with Jack Dee, who continued as a permanent team captain after his appearance on the anniversary special.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2009/04_april/03/shooting.shtml
Cult panel show Shooting Stars has been recommissioned for BBC Two, 15 years after it first burst onto our screens.  Hosted by Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer, the show that introduced viewers to the Dove From Above, UVAVU and George Dawes, will be back for a full series following a one-off special last Christmas.  Once again, Matt Lucas, the man with the scores, will be returning as big baby George Dawes.  Original team captain Ulrika-ka-ka-ka-ka Jonsson will be back as head of team  And, after his debut on the Christmas special, Jack Dee becomes a permanent member of the Shooting Stars team and captain of the opposite team.  Bob Mortimer said: "We're really looking forward to it. Jack is going to be a great headmaster and Ulrika is as game as ever so it should be a very pleasant evening's journey.  "We have a new attitude and new rounds and this series will feature a secret weapon which will assist us in re-inventing the panel show again, just as Shooting Stars originally did."  This new series has been commissioned by Janice Hadlow, Controller of BBC Two. The Executive Producer for BBC is Katie Taylor.  Katie added: "We're delighted that Shooting Stars and all its original lunacy is returning to brighten the screens of BBC Two. Vic and Bob are true comedy innovators and it's great to have them, Ulrika and Matt back together along with Jack Dee."  Shooting Stars was one of TV's first celebrity panel shows and was piloted on BBC Two in December 1993. It went on to run for five series, ending in December 2002, and became a multi-award-winning, worldwide hit.  Shooting Stars (6 x 30-minutes) is a Pett Productions production for BBC Two. The series is written by Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer. Producer is Lisa Clark for Pett Productions and Executive Producer is Katie Taylor for the BBC.