His interment was in Gorton's Cemetery.
www.bbc.co.uk/manchester/content/articles/2006/01/20/200106_charging_thunder_feature.shtml
In the late 19th Century, the former army Scout and expert buffalo tracker William Frederick Cody – better known as Buffalo Bill - created his Wild West Show, one of the greatest spectacles of all time.  He toured Europe with a huge entourage of real cowboys and Indians, trick shooters, rough riders, stagecoaches, wagon trains and even a herd of buffalo!  In November 1887, they first came to Salford setting up camp on the banks of the Irwell and performing to sell out crowds in a huge arena where Sioux warriors and their cowboy counterparts would recreate classic gunslinging scenes from the Wild West or daring acts of horsemanship.  He never returned to his prairie homelands and instead married Josephine, one of the American horse trainers in the show. After first settling in Darwen, they moved to West Gorton in Manchester where they raised a family.  Charging Thunder's name was changed to George Edward Williams after registering with the British immigration authorities and he slowly assimilated into the Gorton community, working for many years at Belle Vue Circus, looking after the elephants.  His favourite elephant was called Nelly and according to his family, when Charging Thunder got drunk, he would head for the circus, climb in with the elephants and sleep off his hangover with Nelly standing guard over him!  "They used to ask: did he go hunting, did he kill bears, and buffalo, things like that. And I used to say, well I do know he went after buffalo and rode horseback. Because as a kid you always used to play cowboys and Indians and I was always Charging Thunder. And I'd say: well my granddad was a Red Indian and he wore a big headdress!" she says.  "I'm very proud of him and I'd say a very strong willed man to give up his life like he did and settle here in Manchester, raise a family and give me the life and heritage that I have."  "I couldn’t believe it! I thought it was a joke at first then I felt cheated because  I wanted to  look like him – I wanted a wider nose and I tried to grow my hair long and wore bead but I could never look like him."  "I was proud of him really and it was great knowing who he was. Many people never  know much about their past but I do and I’ve got him to thank for that."  Rita and Gary never met their remarkable grandfather – they were born after he died. But they have heard that Charging Thunder’s remaining family has been traced in America, descendants of the Lakota Indians in South Dakota.  They’re now looking forward to meeting their long lost relatives.