Their campaign co-ordinator for the West Midlands, Chris Crean, said that although the £900&#160;million cost of the road had been borne by private companies, the money should have been spent on public transport.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/3303629.stm
It has provoked mixed reactions, with some thinking it will ultimately damage the environment, and others arguing it will ease congestion and help businesses.  BBC News Online presents opinions from opposite sides of the debate.  John de Kanter is chief executive of development agency InStaffs (UK) which encourages businesses to invest or re-invest in Staffordshire:  The toll road was built as a through-road, and the idea is that traffic will be able to get where it's going much more easily than with the existing M6.  This road is a national through-road and so we see it as something to be exploited by the area.  We're a company owned by the local authority and chambers of commerce so, from our point of view, we think the road is a wonderful opportunity to bring new business to the area.  There is considerable interest in land and buildings along the corridor and we expect this interest to only increase, bringing new investment and jobs to the area.  And because the road is totally privately financed then it is the companies running it who will have to find the money to keep it going.  The new road puts Staffordshire in a much better position by giving people an option to avoid bad traffic.  And a whole lot more time will be saved and a lot less fuel used by people being stuck in stationary traffic.  Existing development sites in the corridor, all with the planning permission approved - we're not talking about fresh developments - will benefit from the new road and the opportunities that it can bring.     Chris Crean, speaking on BBC Radio Five Live, is campaign co-ordinator for West Midlands Friends of the Earth, which has campaigned for many years against the toll road:  I think this road won't do what it says on the tin - it won't relieve traffic on the M6 through the conurbation of the West Midlands.  This would have given relief to the M6 and therefore traffic travelling through the region from the north to the south.  Truckers [who must pay £10] are not particularly happy with the way they're being charged off the road, and that will come back on the taxpayer because trucks cause massive maintenance problems for the road network.  If the private company running the road - Midland Expressway Ltd - prices those trucks onto our public road network we'll be picking up the bill for that maintenance.  The scheme has been privately financed but the simple thing is that this sort of money has been spent and it's been spent on exactly the wrong thing to actually solve the problem.  If we don't actually solve that problem by getting unnecessary cars off the M6 motorway then all we're going to have... is different congestion problems at different points of the motorway network.  Those are the points where people try and get on and off this particular road, so all we're doing is moving the deckchairs around the Titanic and not getting to grips with the real problems of this country as a whole.  The real problem is congestion and dealing with congestion at source - which means investing in high quality public transport to enable people to have alternatives.   