As a result, the First Division championship was to be decided on the final day of the season.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/scot_div_1/6574353.stm
Clyde's Brian Gilmour squandered a good chance, while a shot from Gretna's Nicky Deverdics struck the bar as the home side dominated after the break.  Martin Canning, Colin McMenamin and James Grady all went close.  Gretna assistant David Irons told BBC Sport: "We go away and prepare for the biggest game of our lives."  Irons' side are now just one point ahead in Division One as they prepare to travel to Dingwall to face a Ross County side that must win to avoid relegation.  Second-top St Johnstone are away to third-placed Hamilton Academical.  Irons denied that the pressure was getting to his side, who have let slip a commanding lead.  "It's frustrating as we did not get the result that the players deserved," he said.  "I thought the boys played brilliantly and we had all the second-half chances.  "I cannot fault them for their attitude or commitment.  "That could be a vital point for us as St Johnstone also have to go to a difficult place next weekend."  Gavin Skelton had almost given Gretna an early lead at Raydale Park with a 30-yard drive going just over the bar.  Deverdics had a shot blocked minutes later after Skelton slipped the ball into the goal box.  The home side struggled to create shots on target, with their best chance at goal coming from a Brendan McGill cross that nearly bounced into the net.  At the other end, Gilmour should have put Clyde in front after 37 minutes, but his chipped shot went over the bar.  Gretna had a number of clear chances in the second half and looked desperate for the victory.  Canning headed over for Gretna after 68 minutes and, seconds later, Deverdics watched a 10-yard shot bounce off the crossbar.  McMenamin had the ball in the net after 84 minutes, but the goal was disallowed after he was judged to have controlled the ball with his hand.  Clyde returned the pressure a minute later when Ruari MacLennan had a 25-yard shot tipped over the bar.  And last-gasp efforts for Gretna from McMenamin and James Grady were not enough to give them the points.