By 2011, NSC Creative fulldome shows are playing in over 220 planetaria in 27 countries worldwide.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-leicestershire-13812684
The National Space Centre in Leicester is celebrating 10 years of education, entertainment and space exploration. Over the last decade the interactive visitor attraction has welcomed nearly 2.5m people through its doors - including 600,000 school children, a host of former astronauts and members of the Royal Family.  The idea for the centre came about in the mid-1990s as a joint project between the city council and the University of Leicester, who thought a visitor attraction based around space may attract more students to their Space Research Centre. With financial backing from the Millennium Commission, the idea became reality.  The centre, designed by architect Nicholas Grimshaw, is based on a 14.5 acre brown field site – formally a sewage treatment works – in the Abbey Meadows area of Leicester. The centre's 42m high tower is the only known building in the world to house upright rockets indoors.  Construction started in April 1999, and the centre opened on 30 June 2001. "What we have is this extraordinary shaped building on the Leicester skyline. It has some nice names, it has some rude nicknames but I think on the whole people have warmed to it," said Chas Bishop, chief executive.  The museum is full of fascinating facts – from what it takes to become an astronaut and how the universe began, to the background on the space race and Leicester’s continuing involvement in space exploration. There are more than 250 exhibits on display including a space capsule, a canine pressure suit and a real piece of moon rock collected in 1972 by Apollo 17.  Visitors can also experience colourful spectacles in the UK's largest planetarium. The shows are devised by the centre's in-house creative team, who over the past five years has won numerous international awards and currently have shows playing in 220 venues across 27 countries.  Over the past 10 years the National Space Centre has picked up more than 50 awards, among them the Guinness World Record for collecting together the largest number of Daleks in a single place - 97 of them.  The not-for-profit charity strongly focuses on education. Schools regularly visit the site and the centre offers a range of educational resources which are used in classrooms throughout the world. "As a nation we need the next generation of engineers and scientists to help our economy and help us be a world leader," said Kevin Yates, space communications manager.  The Space Centre has welcomed a number of special visitors through its doors over the years, including moon walkers Buzz Aldrin and Charlie Duke, plus UK born Astronauts Helen Sharman, Michael Foale and Piers Sellers. In 2002, the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh visited the site as part of their Golden Jubilee tour.  The Beagle 2 spacecraft, which formed part of the European Space Agency's 2003 Mars Express mission, was controlled from the National Space Centre. It was intended to search for signs of life on Mars, however it failed to reach the red planet. Visitors to the centre were able to view operations in the Lander Operations Control Centre.  Leicester has been integral in the UK's space industry. Scientists from the University of Leicester have been heavily involved in developing the €1bn ExoMars project - an European-led programme exploring the possibility of early life on Mars. This project test robot was on display to centre visitors last year.  "It's extraordinary that in our midst we have all these brilliant people sending things out into the far reaches of the universe," Mr Bishop said. The Space Centre will be celebrating its 10th anniversary with a series of special events and has commissioned a statue "dedicated to the pioneering spirit of astronauts".