McDermott, therefore, remained in his post.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/26014775
Reinstated Leeds United manager Brian McDermott has vowed not to walk away from the club following a weekend of uncertainty over his future.  On Friday, prospective new owner Massimo Cellino attempted to dismiss McDermott, only for the Championship club to insist he would remain as boss.  McDermott, 52, reported for duty at the club's training ground on Monday.  "Some people in the game said to not go back, but there's no way I could leave the staff and supporters," he said.  "I got a phone call Friday night from the football club, Chris Farnell (a lawyer representing Cellino), to say I'd been relieved of my duties and a letter was on its way. Saturday morning I got another phone call from GFH to say that wasn't the case. A couple of statements came out and I've been speaking to the LMA, so we've now got to this stage where I'm sitting here again."  "This situation should never happen to a football manager and let's hope it never happens again."  The former Reading manager admitted he had found Friday's events - he was called by a lawyer representing Cellino and told he had been relieved of his duties - hard to fathom.  "All along you think that's very odd," he continued. "You have to be the owner, so I did think it was very strange to say the least.  "Whether it was illegal or not I don't know, but whoever sacks the manager has to own the football club."  Cellino has agreed to buy a 75% stake in Leeds but has yet to gain the approval of the Football League.  The 57-year-old Italian, who also owns Serie A side Cagliari, must pass a "fit and proper person" test first.  "As far as I'm concerned, I spoke to GFH, who are the owners of the football club, and I've had certain reassurances about my future," said McDermott. "The running of the football club is down to me."  McDermott, whose side beat Huddersfield 5-1 in front of a crowd of 31,000 on Saturday, added it was now time for "some calm".  He said: "The only thing that matters is moving forward the best way we can and put what has happened to bed.  "The ownership needs to be resolved very quickly. I've been given assurances that I answer to GFH and GFH only. When the football club does change hands, I will be told who the owners will be.  "I don't hold grudges. The most important thing is the Leeds fans showed absolute class."  Earlier on Monday, club director and GFH Capital executive Salem Patel told BBC Radio Leeds the club wanted McDermott to stay in charge.  "We want Brian back and we want him managing the club again," said Patel. "I was at home on Friday night and my wife started reading Twitter reports that Brian had been sacked.  "To be honest, I was shocked. I thought at least I would be privy to that information if it was going to happen.  "I called the chairman and he was equally surprised by the news.  "I called Brian and told him it was not something that was authorised by us. As soon as we found out, we reacted.  "We hired Brian, we hand-picked him and he has performed really well in the last year or so he's been here and we hope he continues to be our manager for the foreseeable future."