Although it was not made public at the time, the items recovered from the school grounds were clothes matching those the girls were last seen wearing, including their Manchester United shirts.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/3233558.stm
His lawyer told the Old Bailey Mr Huntley took the clothes back to the Soham school where he worked as a caretaker, and set them on fire.  Stephen Coward QC said his client put the burnt clothes in the bin inside a hangar, where they were later found.  The court has already heard Mr Huntley accepts the 10-year-old girls died at his home, but denies murdering them.  Mr Coward said: "The case for my client is, having cut off the clothes of the girls at the deposition site he brought them back to Soham, put them inside one of the bins that we have seen outside the hangar, set fire to the contents and then replaced the bin inside the hangar."  Earlier, the court heard the first forensic evidence of the case.  Forensic scientist Helen Davey told the court how the remains of the girls' charred clothes had been found in the bin.  Many of the clothes had been cut, apparently in a hurry, she said - including their underwear, tracksuit bottoms and football tops.  Dr Davey said the clothes were cut in a manner similar to the way medics cut off clothes in an emergency.  The jagged cut marks, she said, were likely to have been made for the "removal of the garments from the wearer, or wearers, while they were immobile".  Attempts to obtain a DNA profile from the clothing had failed, she said.  There was also no forensic evidence of a sexual assault, although Dr Davey said that could have been due to the condition of the clothes.  Asked to describe the general nature of the garments, Dr Davey said almost all them showed signs of soot and charred markings and some had melted together.  The clothes all smelled of an accelerant such as petrol, she said, and were all wet or damp.  Under cross-examination the expert said there were no signs of damage from stabbing or any attempts to pull or rip the clothes off.  He admits conspiring to pervert the course of justice, but denies murder.  His former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, denies helping an offender and conspiring to pervert the course of justice.  The case was adjourned until Tuesday.