Rescue workers were using a crane to disentangle the charred remains.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/world/europe/2409267.stm
A plane has crashed in thick fog near Luxembourg airport, killing 20 of the 22 people on board.  The Luxair Fokker-50 turboprop plane - Flight LG9642/LH2420 - crashed and caught fire in a field at about 1015 (0915 GMT) on Wednesday as it was coming in to land.  It was carrying 19 passengers and three crew from Berlin-Tempelhof, Luxembourg officials said.  Seventeen people died in the crash, while three of five survivors died in hospital.  The trapped pilot was freed from the damaged cockpit by rescuers after a three-hour operation.  The crash ripped open the plane's fuselage, and witnesses said the wreckage caught fire.  The plane crashed near Niederanven, 10 kilometres (six miles) from the capital's Findel airport. It is an area of gently rolling wooded hills and farmland.  A spokesman for the Luxembourg transport ministry said most of the passengers were German businessmen, the AFP news agency reported.  No-one was injured on the ground. The airport was closed for three hours and incoming flights diverted to other airports in Germany and Belgium. It later reopened, but Luxair's three other Fokkers remained grounded. The cause of the crash remains unclear, though the fog is believed to have been a contributory factor. A Luxair spokesman said the plane had just undergone a week-long service, which was completed on Monday evening. The plane had been in service since 1991. Officials said the control tower received no distress call before the crash. A spokesman for Belgium's defence ministry said Brussels had sent three helicopters to the scene and put a military hospital on alert after Luxembourg requested help. Luxembourg Prime Minster Jean-Claude Juncker went to the scene of the accident. German Transport Minister Manfred Stolpe was also travelling to the scene. Luxair is 13% owned by the German airline Lufthansa LHAG.F and 36.5% owned by the Luxembourg Government. The remaining shares are held by private companies and the Luxair Group. It was the second big air crash in two decades in the Grand Duchy. On 29 September, 1982, 10 people were killed when a Soviet-made Ilyushin 62 skidded off a runway at Luxembourg's airport and crashed into trees.   