Opira was in his late seventies when he was abducted.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/2149675.stm
In a high profile abduction, Lord's Resistance Army rebels in northern Uganda have taken the brother of the late former president, General Tito Okello.  While the Ugandan army says it has killed another 14 fighters of the LRA, the rebels have continued their campaign of looting and abducting civilians in the north.  The abduction of the former president's brother, Erisanweri Opira, is unusual as the rebels normally abduct young Ugandans whom they then conscript into their forces or keep as concubines for the senior LRA members.  And it has been confirmed that 18 women and 13 children seized by the LRA have now been released.  They had been in captivity for between three and five years and were released yesterday in Pajule, Pader District about 300 km north of the capital, Kampala.  One of the bishops who was recently given the go-ahead by President Yoweri Museveni to enter a dialogue with the LRA has described the releases as a goodwill gesture.  But other Ugandans will say the release is simply to enable LRA fighters to operate more effectively as a highly mobile force.  Erisanweri Opira was abducted by the LRA rebels at his home in the Kitgum District of northern Uganda.  Opira, who is in his 70s, was abducted along with a group of teenagers yesterday morning. He is the brother of the late former president, General Tito Okello.  General Okello was president for six months until he was overthrown by President Yoweri Museveni in 1986.  The spokesman for the Ugandan army's 4th division, Paddy Ankunda, told me that the UPDF soldiers are doing everything possible and are working around the clock to rescue him.  Mr Opira is also the uncle of Henry Oryem Okello, the current Minister of State for Education and Sport.  Henry Okello is in Manchester, England, for the forthcoming Commonwealth Games. Speaking by phone from there he told the Ugandan media: "It is my prayer that they release him."  The rebels have abducted hundreds of people in recent weeks during attacks across northern districts of Uganda. The majority are released once they have been used to carry loot for the rebels.  But dozens of abductees - usually those under the age of 30 - are unaccounted for and are still in the hands of the rebels.  As Erisanweri Opira is an elderly man, it is likely that he might be released, as he would be of little use to a highly mobile rebel force.  The rebels have been looting telecommunications equipment and mobile phones to increase their effectiveness. It is also known that the LRA rebels have started to lay anti-personnel landmines, which army field engineers are now trying to make safe.  On Monday, one man ended up in hospital after he ran over a mine on his bicycle.  This is likely to further instil fear in the civilian population.