In an act of contrition, Nintendo gave away free gaming gloves to the victims of these blisters.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/671601.stm
     The company is committing $80 million for the gloves and has also agreed to provide $75,000 for the cost of the New York Attorney General's investigation, which led to the settlement.    According to Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the Mario Party game for the Nintendo 64 console can cause hand injury because to win, players are encouraged to rapidly rotate a joystick with a grooved tip.      Consumers report having to use the palms of their hands to rotate the joystick and, Mr Spitzer says, this damages the skin. Injuries include blistering, burns, lacerations, punctures, and cuts.      "This settlement is good news for parents throughout the nation," Mr Spitzer says. "Nintendo has agreed to take responsibility for the effect of its games on young people. Nintendo of America has agreed to provide protective gaming gloves to owners of a video game blamed for cuts, blisters and other hand injuries.The company is committing $80 million for the gloves and has also agreed to provide $75,000 for the cost of the New York Attorney General's investigation, which led to the settlement.       Mario Party is most insane bash ever to hit the N64    "I am very pleased that my office was able to work with Nintendo to ensure that this vital piece of protective gear is readily available to our children."      Padded palms      However, Tim Weaver, editor of the UK's N64 magazine, told BBC News Online: "It's a bit ludicrous - we've had the game in the office for quite a while and our hands haven't been chafed too much. It could only happen in America."      Mr Weaver said the Mario Party was a popular family game.      Nintendo have agreed to provide up to four protective gloves to each household of consumers owning the video game. The fingerless gloves have padded palms.      Nintendo spokeswoman Beth Llewelyn said the company had sold more than a million of the games since February 1999 and received about 90 complaints, none serious.      She said it also included instructions on proper use of the joystick.     