The Stirling Council leader said the study was a "clear affirmation" of a business-friendly culture in the city.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-tayside-central-35159973
Stirling is the best city in Scotland to start a new business, a study has found.  A low cost of living, good travel links and highly educated workforce earned it the top spot, researchers said.  All 69 cities across the UK were studied, with Stirling taking eighth place overall - ahead of Manchester, London and Birmingham.  The research was carried out by business start-up specialist Quality Formations.  The company said it had marked each city on eight criteria, including commercial property, energy, quality of life and broadband service.  Derby was named as the best place in the UK to start up a new business, followed by Stoke and Belfast.  Stirling Council leader Johanna Boyd said the study was a "clear affirmation" of a business-friendly culture in the city.  "This is brilliant news for Stirling and confirmation that we are the place to be to launch a business.  "We are already known for our heritage, landscape, skilled workforce, excellent transport links, and enviable lifestyle. And we now have the plans in place to build on this and advance opportunities for growth and development for the benefit of all our people."  The council recently announced £200m plans to develop the city, including a new "digital district" with facilities for small and medium-sized businesses.  Councillors hope the proposals will generate more than £80m a year for the local economy and create 1,700 jobs.  A new direct train service which enables people to arrive in London mid-morning on weekdays was also launched on 14 December.  Entrepreneur Ross Tuffee, who co-founded Dogfi.sh Mobile in Stirling, said access to quality graduates and post-graduates was key in choosing the city as a place to start his business.  "We needed a location that met some important criteria including easy access to a supply of great business and technical talent," he said.  "Access to global markets is important for Dogfi.sh Mobile. We have customers located all round the world. Stirling is only 30 minutes from Edinburgh airport - and Edinburgh Airport is only 6 hours from New York."