Leicester won the game 1–0 scoring 59 months after Taylor had missed his penalty.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/32363125
Jamie Vardy scrambled in a winner to lift Leicester out of the Premier League relegation zone 59 seconds after Burnley missed a penalty.  Matty Taylor hit the post from the spot after Paul Konchesky fouled him.  Leicester ran up to the other end and Vardy got the ball over the line after keeper Tom Heaton had prevented a Michael Duff own goal.  It secured a fourth straight win - while Burnley are five points from safety at the bottom of the table.  Victory raised Leicester hopes of a remarkable relegation escape - they were seven points adrift of safety at the start of April.  That run represents a significant turnaround in fortunes for manager Nigel Pearson, who looked set to lose his job in February.  But a failure to find the net looks increasingly likely to cost Sean Dyche's side their Premier League status, and they paid for not taking the opportunities they created - extending their run without a goal to five games.  They had the best opening of the first half, with Taylor just failing to connect as Duff headed Kieran Trippier's corner towards goal, and keeper Kasper Schmeichel scrambling the ball away.  And it was midfielder Taylor, making his first start since August after recovering from Achilles and heel surgery, who should have given them the lead from the spot, seconds after Schmeichel had saved well from Danny Ings.  Not only did Nigel Pearson's side survive, they punished Burnley immediately, with Vardy scoring his third goal in five matches.  Schmeichel was alert later on to stop Robert Huth turning Ben Mee's cross into his own net, making a fine reflex save to beat the ball away.  From Leicester, this was not the expansive style of play that had brought 10 goals in their previous four matches, although Vardy and substitute Matty James had chances to seal victory on the break late on.  Heaton's save from James at least kept Burnley in the game, but they couldn't score - a familiar failing for them these days.  "The game is cruel sometimes. I think that was a show of it today when it was at its cruellest.  "Their keeper, arguably their man of the match, has made big saves for them. We miss a penalty and they score 60 seconds later from just a knock in the box but it was from a dangerous area."  On Matt Taylor's missed penalty: "He has a history of taking them. It's a great sign he grabbed the ball and he struck it well.  "I think his heel just shifted as he hit it so I don't know if he slipped a bit and dragged it but he's sent the keeper the wrong way.  "The game was bigger than that moment. Obviously it is a big moment but we have created enough chances once again."  The full commentary from Conor McNamara and Jimmy Armfield as Burnley miss a penalty and Leicester score - all in 90 seconds