Instead of mapresident effective investigation, King Gyanendra destroyed every evidence that brings him on a circle of suspicion which led him to be the most unpopular king in the history.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/1387953.stm
A drunken Crown Prince Dipendra killed his parents, the King and Queen of Nepal, and seven other royals before killing himself, an official investigation has found.  The inquiry panel's report was made public shortly after being handed over to the new King Gyanendra.  One of the panel members, parliament speaker Taranath Ranabhat, told a news conference: "A drunken crown prince indiscriminately fired, killing the royals."  Police were deployed in force as the report was published, amid fears of a repeat of the rioting that followed the 1 June massacre.  The two-man investigating panel set up by King Gyanendra to look into the killings interviewed more than 100 people during the week-long inquiry.  The panel spoke to eyewitnesses, and heard evidence from palace officials, guards and staff.  On Wednesday, they asked if they could speak to Dipendra's girlfriend Devyani Rana, who is believed to have fled Nepal immediately after the massacre.  But she is reportedly in Europe, and reluctant to return to Kathmandu.  The panel stressed that it was not giving its conclusions, but merely providing information it had acquired during its investigation.  Eyewitness accounts made public after the shooting said Dipendra was responsible - although they failed to shed any light on his motives.  But there were suggestions after the shooting that he had had a bitter row with his parents because they opposed his plans to marry Devyani Rana.  The killings shocked ordinary Nepalese, many of whom refused to believe that Dipendra was responsible.  Two people were killed and 19 injured in days of rioting after the massacre.  Three nights of curfews eventually helped calm the situation.  In Kathmandu, a ceremony has taken place to bid farewell to Dipendra's soul.  He died two days after the palace shooting from self-inflicted injuries.  Tradition demands that 11 days after his death, a Brahmin priest should dress up in clothes and eat a ritually impure meal.  He is then escorted out of Kathmandu on an elephant, along with clothes, jewellery, furniture and other possessions of the late crown prince.  After spending three days in the adjoining town of Patan, he will have to leave the area, never to return again.  Crowds gathered to watch the ceremony, which was attended by top officials.  A similar ceremony was held on Monday for the late King Birendra.