When they were eliminated in the seventh game the next week, the incident was seen as the "first domino" in the turning point of the series.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/3200582.stm
By trying to catch a foul ball from his seat in the stands, Mr Bartman denied his team the chance of a winning catch against the Florida Marlins.  The Cubs' dream of winning their first World Series since 1908 rapidly receded - and with it Mr Bartman.  He has been in hiding since Tuesday's match to escape his city's anger.  During that game, he stuck his hand out just as a Cubs fielder was poised to catch an out ball.  He blocked the catch, and the shaken Cubs proceeded to drop from a 3-0 lead to an 8-3 defeat - a bitter loss compounded at playoffs on Wednesday when the Marlins won 9-6 to win the series.  Mr Bartman's ill-fated intervention - for which he has humbly apologised - has brought down a wave of contempt on his head, from abuse and spitting by fellow fans in Wrigley Field stadium as he was escorted out on Tuesday to a campaign to ridicule him on the internet.  One Cubs fan parodied an FBI "Ten most wanted" poster on the net with Mr Bartman's picture on it.  "Considered ignorant and extremely stupid," the poster reads. "Wanted for "interfering with crucial play... breaking the heart of an entire city."  The Chicago Sun-Times ran a picture of his intervention under the headline "Curses".  The Governor of Illinois, Rod Blagojevich, joined in the jibing with an offer to get Mr Bartman a spot in a witness protection programme.  Down in Florida, Governor Jeb Bush could not resist offering political asylum to the man who had helped the Marlins to victory.  "I promise we will expedite his safe passage," he said.  Amid all the ridicule, the only crumb of comfort Steve Bartman may draw is the knowledge that his team was "cursed" from the outset anyway.  According to a Cubs legend, a fan with a pet billy goat who was turned away from the stadium in 1945 laid a curse on the team.  "They've got the curse of a goat or something, right," Gerardo Pena, a Florida Marlins fan, commented to AP news agency.  "I guess this guy is their new goat."