This was within a hour and a half remaining on his contract, citing "disgraceful abuse".
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/internationals/3734094.stm
The under-fire German tendered his resignation on Monday and he leaves his post by mutual consent after two-and-a-half years in charge.  Vogts blamed the criticism he has received recently after a series of poor displays for his decision.  He said: "The major factor in this decision has been the disgraceful abuse that I have suffered."  In an emotional statement released by the SFA, he continued: "It has degenerated into a physical nature, especially on recent occasions where I have been spat upon.  "This is not acceptable behaviour in a civilised society and I know that the vast majority of Scots will join me in my disgust at this act by a very tiny minority."  Vogts has been under mounting pressure to quit or be relieved of his post by the Scottish Football Association because of Scotland's woes in the World Cup qualifying campaign.  They are currently second from bottom of Group Five with just two points from three games and disappointingly drew 1-1 in Moldova last time out.  Vogts suffered a barrage of criticism after the match but he did earn support from the likes of Graeme Souness, Alan Hansen and Craig Brown.  They cited the lack of talent at his disposal as a contributory factor in the German's downfall.  Vogts also pointed a finger of blame towards the Scottish tabloid press.  He added: "The opinions expressed mostly by journalists with little knowledge of the game certainly had a great effect on some of the fans.  "I know that the opinions that have been expressed by a section of the press are not those of the majority of the Scottish people."  But Vogts did thank a number of high profile mangers who had supported him during recent weeks, including Sir Alex Ferguson, Brown, Martin O'Neill and Kenny Dalglish.  He also paid tribute to his players, in particular skipper Barry Ferguson, saying: "I was proud that they stood shoulder to shoulder with me, when it would have been easy to turn their backs.  "But when the going got tough, they stood firm. I am really proud of them all and eternally grateful for that unity that I experienced both in and out of the dressing room."  The Scottish FA Board meets again on Thursday, 4 November to discuss matters concerning the selection of a new Scotland coach.  Former Everton and Rangers boss Walter Smith is the favourite to replace Vogts, although it is believed he has not yet been officially contacted by the SFA.  Gordon Strachan, who quit as Southampton manager in February, is also in the frame.