The Hong Kong authorities also refused to admit him and he returned to Thailand the next year.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/7572477.stm
Paedophile and ex-pop star Gary Glitter has been refused entry to Hong Kong after being deported from Thailand. Chinese authorities informed the UK Foreign Office they had barred Glitter, real name Paul Gadd, 64. Earlier he was deported from Vietnam after spending almost three years in jail for sexually abusing two girls. He flew to Hong Kong from Bangkok after refusing to fly to the UK. An official told the Associated Press he may be returned to Thailand. The news agency also reported that the British Consulate-General in Hong Kong said, in a statement issued on Thursday, that Glitter contacted the office for help, although it did not elaborate on the nature of the assistance requested. The former pop star had boarded a Thai Airways flight to the Chinese territory after Thai authorities refused him entry and threatened to deport him to Britain. A spokesman for the Foreign Office said: "It is a matter for the Chinese authorities to decide what action they take now." Immigration police at Hong Kong airport said privacy laws meant they could not comment on Glitter's case. He had earlier been barred from entering Thailand by immigration officials after he said he wanted to remain in the country or go to another Asian nation. This was despite a plea for medical treatment as Glitter said he was suffering a heart attack. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Glitter sold millions of records as a glam rock star in the 1970s, with hits including I'm the Leader of the Gang. Thai police had earlier told Reuters news agency they would be "deporting him to his home country, England, unconditionally". The BBC's Jonathan Head says 19 countries have already said they would refuse Glitter entry. The fact he has flown to Hong Kong is a blow to the UK authorities who want to get him home and on the sex offenders register, our correspondent says. I think these [new paedophile controls] are sensible and proportional ways of toughening up what is already a very tough system    If Glitter does return to the UK, he will be met at the airport by police and required to sign the register. He will then be subject to monitoring and have to tell the police where he plans to live and if he planned to go abroad. He could also face an order prohibiting him from going near children or using the internet. Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said on Tuesday it was her view that Glitter should be given a Foreign Travel Order (FTO) banning him from overseas travel. Ms Smith has also announced plans to tighten controls on the movements of paedophiles. Proposed measures include increasing the length of time an FTO can apply from six months to up to five years, and automatically confiscating the passport of anyone subject to an order. At present, police are only allowed to rely on evidence from the previous six months about the risk an individual poses, but that time period would also be extended under the plans. "I think these are sensible and proportional ways of toughening up what is already a very tough system. I think that's what we owe to children in this country and to children abroad," Ms Smith said. The home secretary's announcement came after children's charity Ecpat UK accused the government of "turning a blind eye" to British sex tourists. The charity said it was too easy for nationals convicted abroad to stay under the radar of British police upon their return.     