The second attempt to start the race took place nearly an minute after the first.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sport/formula_1/161298.stm
It was followed by a series of accidents in the wet conditions, most notably one which led to Michael Schumacher's controversial exit.  Tyres flew all over the track  The race began with what is thought to be Formula One's biggest crash in terms of the number of cars involved, if not injury.  Coulthard's McLaren had appeared to slide across the track after the tight first right-hand hairpin corner, La Source.  The Scottish driver, beginning second on the grid, lost control of his McLaren and smashed into the wall to the right of the track.  Coulthard's car, set up with 'wets', then spun back across the tarmac and banged into the opposite wall, causing chaos on the dangerous circuit.  Debris from the crash - including wheels - flew at high speed across the track.  No drivers were seriously injured in the smash although Brazilian Rubens Barrichello was ruled out of the restart with a minor injury.  For three others, the weekend was over since three teams saw both cars damaged, and each is only allowed one spare.  Riccardo Rosset, Mika Salo, and Olivier Panis were the unlucky trio, as the race eventually re-started almost an hour later.  Hakkinen's luck ran out at the re-start. He had made a perfect first start and avoided the first lap smash by leading away from the lights.  The safety car was brought out and Damon Hill led the race as Coulthard recovered from another spin, which was not to be the final incident of the Scot's race.  After the track was cleared and the safety car taken away, the racing finally began with Michael Schumacher putting intense pressure onto Hill.  The German eventually passed the Briton, to take the lead in a race in which a win would have given him the championship lead.  But that was not to be when the twice world champion smashed into the rear of Coulthard's McLaren on lap 25 of the 44-lap race.  The German in his Ferrari was 30 seconds ahead of Hill before he rammed into the back of Coulthard's car in heavy rain and banks of spray, losing his front right wheel in the impact.  But when he got there he leaped from his smashed car and stormed down the pit lane to confront Coulthard in the McLaren garage.  Schumacher, who has won the race four times, shook off team members who attempted to stop him but was thwarted from a head-to-head confrontation by a mass of people in the garage at McLaren.  Worse still for Ferrari was the retirement of Eddie Irvine,  Hill recovered the lead after Schumacher's shunt to deliver the British team's first victory in eight years in Formula One, despite yet another accident.  That gave Coulthard a chance to rejoin the remaining six cars after having his car rebuilt in the garage.  But despite the Scot's eventful afternoon, the day belonged to an Englishman and an Irishman.  Damon Hill's win was his first since his world title triumph in 1996.