Held just before that year's general election, which Labour was widely expected to win, the event is often seen as a factor in the party's defeat.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/special/politics97/background/pastelec/92keyiss.shtml
As the 1992 General Election campaign opened there was much talk of hung parliaments as no single party seemed able to establish a clear enough lead in the opinion polls to secure an outright victory. This put a tremendous focus during the campaign on the Liberal Democrats, who remained firmly committed to their policy of equidistance, under which they made it clear they would be prepared to sustain either of the main parties in the event of a hung parliament in exchange for a commitment on proportional representation (PR) for elections to the Commons.  The Conservatives remained implacably opposed to proportional representation and throughout the campaign Mr Major made this clear, giving the impression - possibly - of a man who believed his party could win alone.  On the contrary, the Labour Party had spent much of the latter part of the 1980s agonising over electoral reform. Successive election defeats appeared to show that it was going to be very difficult for any left-of-centre party to win outright under First-Past-The Post (FPTP). By 1992 the party was in the middle of a review of electoral systems in the UK, which was being headed by Professor Raymond Plant (now Labour peer Lord Plant).  The Plant Commission, as it came to be known, was not due to report until after the election, allowing Labour to go into the campaign with an open mind on the issue, although many senior figures such as Roy Hattersley were firmly opposed to PR. The policy left the door open for negotiation with the Lib Dems in the event of a hung parliament and Labour also hoped its "warm words" on PR would attract Lib Dem voters to switch to Labour.  However, in the campaign the issue did more harm than good to the Labour Party. As talk of hung parliaments intensified in the latter part of the campaign, Neil Kinnock let it be known at a press conference on Friday April 2 - Charter 88's Democracy Day - that Labour would like to see other political parties (namely the Lib Dems) join the working party being headed by Raymond Plant.  This seemed to affirm the Prime Minister's accusation of the previous day that the Lib Dems were the Labour Party's "Trojan Horse". The weekend papers were full of speculation about possible deals in a hung parliament and the manoeuvring of Mr Kinnock began to make him look untrustworthy and weak against a Prime Minister opposed to such "deals".  On 6 April a story in The Times suggested that Mr Ashdown would demand four seats in a Labour Cabinet. But the story looked presumptuous and although, according to Butler and Kavanagh, it came from a good source, Mr Ashdown was forced to deny it.  By now Labour's decision to talk about PR seemed to be backfiring disastrously and when on 6 April Mr Kinnock refused to be drawn on his personal view on PR on the Granada 500 election programme, his credibility as a Prime Minister-in-waiting was further damaged. Potential Lib Dem voters frightened of letting in a Labour government switched back to the Conservatives.     "Labour's Tax Bombshell" and the Shadow Budget It was clear going into the '92 campaign that tax was going to be a central issue. Labour had worked hard since 1987 to neutralise its image as a high tax-and-spend party. With the steady, bank manager-like John Smith as Shadow Chancellor, and the tenacious Margaret Beckett as his deputy, firm spending commitments had been kept to a minimum and Labour hoped to be able to persuade the voters that it could be trusted on tax. All Labour Party policy proposals were carefully costed and the party was determined to give the Conservatives no scope for scaring the voters with the claim that Labour would put up their taxes. However, as early as the summer of 1991 the Conservatives had launched an offensive on Labour's spending plans, costing their proposals at £35 billion and in the New Year it became clear there would be no let up. On 6 January 1992 they unveiled the "Labour's Tax Bombshell" poster campaign, in which it was claimed Labour's plans would mean tax increases of more than £1,000 for the average voter. In an attempt to neutralise Tory attempts to raise fears in the voters minds about hidden tax rises, Labour decided that it would produce its own Shadow Budget setting out in detail its tax and spending plans. This was presented on Tuesday 17 March, just six days into the campaign and seven days after Chancellor Norman Lamont's real Budget had been presented to the Commons. Labour's "Budget" proposed an increase in the personal allowance of £330, of particular help to the lower paid; an increase in the top rate of tax from 40% to 50%; and removal of the exemption from 9% National Insurance contributions on high earners. Labour claimed 8 out of 10 voters would be better off under its proposals. In particular, those at the lower end of the earnings scale would be much better off. Labour claimed that a single person on average earnings would be over £100 per annum better off and that the average two earner family with two children would be £311 per annum better off. Higher earners on the other hand would be much worse off. A married couple with one earner on £40,000 would be approximately £150 a month worse off. During the election campaign the Shadow Budget was pretty well-received, although in hindsight many commentators claimed Labour's openness on the subject had proved a tactical error. However, it is unlikely that the Shadow Budget had any specific impact. It was an attempt by Labour to rebut Tory propaganda about its tax plans, but by the election the Conservatives long-run campaign to plant in the voters' minds the fear that they would all be worse off under Labour seemed to have borne fruit.