He had been on the coaching staff under Hamilton who resigned with the club 20th in the First Division and in real danger of relegation to the sixth tier of English football for the first time since the 1960s.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/teams/n/norwich/1097980.stm
Nigel Worthington has been named as Bryan Hamilton's successor at Norwich after a month-long trial as caretaker-boss.  The 39-year-old, who has been at the club since 4 December, was confirmed as the new permament manager on Tuesday.  Worthington has been given a two-and-a-half year contract.  The former Northern Ireland defender guided the Canaries to their first win in six games in his first game in charge, and since led them to another win, a defeat and two draws.  "Nigel Worthington had indicated from the outset that he wanted to be considered for the manager's position and the board agreed that Nigel would be given every chance to prove his credentials," said Norwich chairman Bob Cooper.  "The Board are impressed with the manner in which Nigel, Doug (Livermore) and Steve (Foley) have taken charge of first team matters.  "They clearly work well as a team and provide vital continuity. They complement and balance each other well and clearly have the respect of the players and the staff, as well as that of the entire board. "Nigel, Doug and Steve have done enough to convince us that they have the breadth of skills, as well as the enthusiasm, drive and determination to take Norwich City Football Club forward. "We are delighted to confirm their appointments and we wish them every success in the task that lies ahead." Doug Livermore has been appointed assistant manager and former reserve team boss Steve Foley steps up to first team coach. Since their relegation from the Premiership at the end of the 1994/1995 season five managers have come and gone, each failing to mount a serious bid for promotion. Hamilton only took charge in March, stepping into the hot seat from his role as director of football after Bruce Rioch quit - frustrated at a lack of funds to strengthen the squad. Among the other names believed to have been interested in the job were former Southampton boss Dave Jones and ex-Norwich favourites Steve Bruce and Mel Machin.