He received his third life sentence with a minimum term of 27 months.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-berkshire-18861198
A convicted child killer has been found guilty of the murder of a teenager in Berkshire 46 years ago.  Yolande Waddington, 17, was found strangled in the village of Beenham in October 1966.  David Burgess, 64, was jailed for life in 1967 for the killing of nine-year-old girls Jeanette Wigmore and Jacqueline Williams in Beenham.  He was charged with Yolande's murder following advances in DNA techniques and convicted after a five-week trial.  The jury at Reading Crown Court convicted Burgess by a majority verdict of 11 to one.  Jurors had been deliberating since Monday.  Speaking on behalf of the family outside court, Yolande's brother Giles Waddington broke down as he read from a statement.  He said: "We're grateful that justice has now been completed and that Yolande's murderer has been identified after more than 45 years.  "Yolande's murder had a traumatic and irreversible effect on our family life and has cast a long shadow over nearly five decades."  Yolande had only recently moved to the village to work as a nanny at a farm when she was killed.  She was last seen alive at the Six Bells pub on the evening of Friday, 28 October 1966.  During the trial, the jury heard Yolande's naked body was discovered in a ditch beside a farmer's barn two days later.  She had been stabbed and strangled and tied up with a jumper knotted around her face.  Blood from Yolande's attacker had been found on a number of items, including her comb and hair band.  Detectives from Scotland Yard were sent to Beenham to help with the investigation and carried out the first ever mass blood screening, with samples taken from 200 males in the area aged between 16 and 60.  A sample supposedly from Burgess was also taken, but it failed to meet one of the tests and was deemed not to be a match.  Police believe he may have got someone else to give a sample on his behalf or the specimen was labelled incorrectly.  Last year, Thames Valley Police carried out a review into the case and using a new technique obtained a partial DNA profile which matched Burgess's.  Pete Beirne, the force's principal investigator of cold cases, said: "David Burgess has never accepted his guilt despite confessing to the crime to prison officers on three separate occasions.  "He has never fully explained how or why he killed Yolande."