From three sets down, Van Barneveld came back to beat Taylor 7-6 in the sudden death leg in one of the greatest darts matches of all time to match Bristow's record of five city titles.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/other_sports/darts/6223633.stm
There is pandamonium at the Circus Tavern and amidst the noise, the players start the decider with Barney drawing first blood after a 76 checkout.  Taylor levels with a sublime 13-darter but his radar is off target in the next as Van Barneveld goes ahead again.  Taylor starts the fourth leg badly but he levels at 2-2 as Barney misses a the final dart of a 120 checkout which would have given him the PDC title for the first time.  The Power misses a 121 checkout in the fifth and Barney goes ahead again with a double 16.  In the sixth, Van Barneveld has another golden opportunity to claim victory as Taylor misses a 147 checkout but the Dutchman misses three attempts at double top.  Taylor goes behind again after missing the bull but the set goes to 4-4 as the Power sinks a double four on his third dart as Barney lurks on a double.  Despite the tension, both players produce some wonderful scoring in the ninth leg but Van Barneveld takes the lead after Taylor misses a 136 checkout.  Barney misses a 170 checkout in the next and Taylor cleans up to take the match into a sudden death leg.  Van Barneveld takes the throw for the crunch leg and although he seems to have let Taylor in after missing double top, he wins the contest at his next visit to end a truely remarkable final.  Van Barneveld has one eye on the title after taking the opening leg against the throw but Taylor responds immediately as Barney starts to misfire.  Taylor misses a 99 checkout on a double 16 and Van Barneveld moves into a 2-1 lead with a stunning 121 finish which ends on the bull.  The Power misses a 161 checkout in the fourth but stays in the contest after his rival spurns a 164.  Taylor then rams home his advantage with some excellent scoring in the fifth leg and fires a double 16 to take the game into a decider.  The man from Stoke is pumped up for this and celebrates winning the set by dancing across the stage and urging the crowd to increase the volume - an almost impossible request.  Taylor shows again how unshakable he is when he takes the opening leg against the throw after some slack darts from the Dutchman.  The Power, who has ditched his orange shirt for a white one, misses a 130 checkout in the second but Van Barneveld is wayward with two attempts at double 16, allowing Taylor to take control.  Barney takes the third with a 72 checkout to stay in the set and then levels it up with some high scoring in the next.  The game is then turned on its head when Van Barneveld, who was 3-0 down, takes the lead for the first time with a 78 checkout and the fans are on their feet again.  Van Barneveld knows he has to wrestle the advantage from Taylor's throw if he is to win this and he claims the first leg against the throw with the help of two 180s.  But you cannot keep a great player down for long and Taylor replies immediately with a 121 checkout - sealed with a bull.  Taylor is so close to taking the third but he misses a double 20 and another leg goes against the throw.  A sloppy Taylor misses a 100 checkout in the fourth and Barney steps in to take the leg and level up the contest.  The crowd again goes wild and Barney screams in delight for the first time.  Another high-quality set from Van Barneveld as he takes the first leg after Taylor misses a double 16 which would have given him a 142 checkout.  The Power has another 142 chance in the second leg but again the double 16 is his downfall and Barney's 101 checkout puts him in control.  Taylor knows he is in a real battle and just misses a double six to allow Barney the chance to take the set.  This is going to go down as one of the great finals.  Van Barneveld's scoring has gone through the roof and he wins the first leg against the throw with a pinpoint bull.  But the momentum shifts again in the next as Barney fails to finish off from 20 out and Taylor bravely hits a double 16.  Van Barneveld has another superb chance in the third as he attempts a 156 checkout but his final dart for double 18 clips the wire and Taylor's double 16 does the trick again.  Barney levels the set with his third dart at double eight but he fails to convert a 156 finish in the decider and Taylor holds his nerve to win the pivotal set.  His reaction at the end, a pumped fist and a grimace to the crowd, shows how important it was.  It starts so well for Barney with a 180 in the first leg and despite stuttering on the doubles, Taylor is unable to cash in.  Van Barneveld takes the second with a fine 96 checkout as Taylor uncharacteristically struggles on the trebles.  And the Dutchman takes the set with a 91 checkout and looks a far stronger proposition than he did after Taylor's opening blitz.  Taylor looks to have regained his poise with a comfortable display in the sixth set.  He takes the opening two legs with Van Barneveld waiting in the wings on a double, the first with a 92 checkout and the second after Barney misses a double 16.  The Power records an 87 checkout in the third leg to take a two-set lead and as Van Barneveld departs the stage, Taylor looks out at his adoring public looking like a man who is totally enjoying himself at his second home.  Van Barneveld has no trouble in taking the opening leg but Taylor takes the second despite not flowing as he did earlier on.  Taylor just misses a 127 checkout in the third but Barney wastes the chance and the Power wins the leg against the throw.  The set turns after the Dutchman hits back straightaway with a stunning 129 checkout and pulls the contest back to 3-2 as Taylor struggles in the decider.  The excitable crowd are definitely getting their money's worth. Game on.  Van Barneveld gets back in the match as suddenly his game clicks into gear.  He takes the first leg with a 76 checkout and in the second Taylor misses a 122 finish to let the Dutchman in.  Barney saves the best until last however, as he fires a superb 170 checkout. A gracious Taylor applauds the finish and the Circus Tavern erupts.  Van Barneveld gets two chances to take the opening leg but misses from 122 out and then somehow from seven and Taylor gratefully mops up.  Taylor does not looking like a world beater on the doubles in the second but Barney is just unable to pounce and at times looks completely despairing.  Van Barneveld finally gets on the board in the third as he suddenly ups his average as Taylor's dips but normal service is resumed in the next as the Power takes a firm grip on the final.  Barney looks a bit more confident at the start of the second set but is soon put back in his cage as Taylor records a 111 checkout to take the first leg.  The Dutchman is agonisingly close to a 167 checkout in the second leg - just missing the final bull - and Taylor, as ruthless as ever, steps up to take a 2-0 lead.  Taylor is not as clinical as he would like in the third but is still way ahead of Barney and shows his confidence with a little boogie as his opponent goes back stage to try and gather his thoughts.  What a blistering start from Taylor as he wraps up the first set in just eight minutes.  He sets the tone by taking the opening leg against the throw before winning the next with the help of a stunning 164 checkout.  Van Barneveld looks nervous as he struggles to cope with his opponent's storming start and fails to take advantage in the third leg as Taylor misses his first attempt at a double.  1949: The players reach the stage to a cacophony of noise at the Circus Tavern in Purfleet.  Taylor is resplendent in orange, maybe he is trying to win over some of the Dutch fans.  It is the final that everybody wanted and the stage is set for 13-time world champion Phil "The Power" Taylor against Dutchman Raymond van Barneveld.  The two players are evenly matched in their contests since van Barneveld crossed to the PDC in February.  Each player has recorded two wins apiece with one draw.  Taylor has again been in superb form as he looks to win his 14th title, dropping only two sets in five matches.  Van Barneveld, who has won the British Darts Organisation world title four times, has also looked good, his only scare coming in the second-round clash with Colin Lloyd.