The reserve was then used to make up the shortfall in the Civil List during the subsequent year.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/10391693
Taxpayer funding for the Queen has been frozen at £7.9m for the coming year, but how exactly is the Civil List spent and what costs more - staff salaries, ceremonial uniforms or garden parties?  The current level of funding has been in place since 2000, but the Civil List itself dates all the way back to 1760 when income from the Crown Estate was paid to Parliament in exchange for the payment of a fixed yearly sum.  Between 1990-2000 an unspent surplus of £35m led to an agreement that the Civil List would be frozen at £7.9m until December 2010.  If the Queen's expenditure exceeded this sum she would be able to withdraw funds from the £35m reserve. So far £34.1m of the reserve has been used.What happens in the future remains to be seen.  See how the Civil List breaks down by clicking on the tabs below.  Salaries make up the bulk of spending, accounting for 72% last year. The Executive and administrative spend comes next and includes computers and information systems, recruitment and training and stationery. The Palace says recruitment and training costs have generally fallen over the period with the introduction of online recruitment and lower staff turnover. Salaries make up the bulk of spending, accounting for 72% last year. The Executive and administrative spend comes next and includes computers and information systems, recruitment and training and stationery. The Palace says recruitment and training costs have generally fallen over the period with the introduction of online recruitment and lower staff turnover. Spending on executive and administrative salaries has increased by 77% while housekeeping and furnishings salaries has more than doubled since 2001. But the Palace points out that the Royal Household has taken responsibility for additional salary expenditure since 2000 which was met previously by government departments. Spending on executive and administrative salaries has increased by 77% while housekeeping and furnishings salaries has more than doubled since 2001. But the Palace points out that the Royal Household has taken responsibility for additional salary expenditure since 2000 which was met previously by government departments. Spending on depreciation has quadrupled since 2001, while spending on stationery has tripled and spending on recruitment and training has increased by 50% since 2001. Spending on depreciation has quadrupled since 2001, while spending on stationery has tripled and spending on recruitment and training has increased by 50% since 2001. Garden parties are the second most expensive item on the Civil List. They account for 5% of overall expenditure in 2009. Food prices have risen over the period but costs are not expected to rise next year, says the Palace. Garden parties are the second most expensive item on the Civil List. They account for 5% of overall expenditure in 2009. Food prices have risen over the period but costs are not expected to rise next year, says the Palace. Spending on furnishings and equipment has trebled since 2001 while spend on housekeeping has increased by 50%. These particular items are subject to large fluctuations year-by-year the Palace says. Spending on furnishings and equipment has trebled since 2001 while spend on housekeeping has increased by 50%. These particular items are subject to large fluctuations year-by-year the Palace says. Spending on uniforms and carriage processions matches the spend in 2001, although in other years the spend has been higher. The Palace says that this expenditure is not expected to increase in 2010. Spending on uniforms and carriage processions matches the spend in 2001, although in other years the spend has been higher. The Palace says that this expenditure is not expected to increase in 2010.