She finished sixth place in the semi-final.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2006/12_december/16/bunton.shtml
   Three couples became two as Mark Ramprakash and partner Karen Hardy together with Matt Dawson and Lilia Kopylova won a place in the Strictly Come Dancing final on BBC One. The two sportsmen will now battle it out to win the coveted title of Strictly Come Dancing Champion 2006. Emma Bunton didn't get what she really, really wanted tonight (Saturday 16 December) as she was booted off the show - even though she came second in the competition scoring a total of 69 out of 80. Emma and partner Darren Bennett performed the Salsa and the Argentine Tango. Of Emma and Darren's Argentine Tango the judges said - Bruno: "The choreography was superb. Some of the lunges were so clean and precise I don't know how you did it in a week - actually four days. What a great job." Len: "With this dance you want to go back to Buenos Aires... meeting with the ladies of the night, lots of passion. I must say occasionally you were a little unsure but all the drama was there, the steps were there. Very, very well done." Craig: "I have to agree with Len and Bruno. It was absolutely phenomenal. Intimate, sensual I felt like I was looking through a key hole. There was tension." Arlene: "I thought it was a technical masterpiece. But for me it completely lacked intimate desire. There was none of that secret language going on. Wonderfully technical but nothing more." And of Emma and Darren's Salsa the judges said - Bruno: "Well, Emma, girl power is alive and well. Feisty, great fun, a party dance. I enjoyed every minute." Craig: "I just wanted to comment on some improvement. I don't think anyone has said how much you've improved. You're using the floor much better. I would have liked to see you dance more together." Arlene: "Well, I disagree with Bruno, although great to see your hips move, you were too far apart." Bruno: "All the fun was there." Arlene: "I wanted to see them more together. I didn't see that." Len: "The parts when you were together were stronger and had much more energy than when you were apart." Emma said: "To be the last female in the competition is astounding. I am so proud. "Darren has been like my brother. We've become so close. I can't imagine not having Darren in my life now. "Doing this show has taught me confidence and not to worry about every little thing." All the couples performed a dance they had not done before as well as the Argentine Tango - which was new to both the professionals and the celebrities. Mark and Karen impressed the judges with their Argentine Tango scoring an amazing 39 out of 40, which coupled with their Quickstep gave them a total of 73 out of 80. Sir Cliff Richard performed live on the show with a special dance performance by Vincent Simone and Flavia Cacace. Next week the finalists will perform a show dance, their best ballroom and best Latin dances of the series. And all of the celebrities and dancers from the series will return to perform on the final night - Saturday 23 December. Tonight Strictly Come Dancing was awarded a Critics' Circle National Dance Award - The Patron's Award. It is given to the individual or organisation that has significantly furthered the cause of dance in the UK. The award was presented to hosts Bruce Forsyth and Tess Daly and the show's producer Sam Donnelley by legendary ballerina Dame Beryl Grey, patron of the National Dance Awards. This evening there were more than 2 million phone votes on the night alone. Don't forget you can get all the up to date gossip on the sister show It Takes Two, weekdays at 6.30pm on BBC Two, and also via bbc.co.uk/strictlycomedancing. You can also catch the Strictly Come Dancing highlights show at 7pm on Sunday 17 December on BBC Two.