He had been the deputy editor for five months.
www.bbc.co.uk/mediacentre/latestnews/2013/bbc-breakfast-editor.html
I’m so excited to have the chance to build on the programme’s amazing success over the last few years."  Adam, 49, has been deputy editor of BBC Breakfast for five years.  He led the complex project which moved the programme to its new home in Salford in April 2012. As launch editor he was instrumental in ensuring a smooth transition and maintaining Breakfast’s dominant position as the UK’s most-watched early morning TV show. During his time on the show he has edited general election programmes, outside broadcasts from Africa and overseen the special coverage of the 2012 Olympics.  Prior to working on Breakfast, Adam was an assistant editor on the BBC News channel when it launched in 1997.  Adam began his journalistic career at a news agency before moving to independent local radio. He got his first BBC job at BBC Radio Suffolk. From there he moved to regional television and became editor at BBC Look East before moving to London.  Adam says: “I’m absolutely delighted to be given the opportunity to be editor of BBC Breakfast. I truly believe it’s one of the best jobs in TV news and I’m so excited to have the chance to build on the programme’s amazing success over the last few years. I already know what a fantastic team of people I have around me and I can’t wait to start work on some of the ideas I have for the future.”  Mary Hockaday, Head of the BBC Multimedia Newsroom, says: “I’m really delighted that Adam is to be the next editor of BBC Breakfast. He is a brilliant journalist with deep knowledge of and affection for BBC Breakfast’s audience, who are such an important part of its success. It was no small feat to oversee the move of BBC Breakfast to its wonderful new home in Salford and a tribute to Adam that the programme stayed so editorially strong throughout.  "Adam wants BBC Breakfast to be a smart BBC News start to the day blended with engaging guests, audience stories and a real feel for what’s happening around the UK, and I know he and the team will deliver the perfect morning mix.”