Malik played his last Test match in January 1999 but ended his softball career in disgrace, having been given a life ban as a result of Justice Qayyam's enquiry in May 2000.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/sport/cricket/762466.stm
Former Pakistan captain Salim Malik and medium pace bowler Ata-ur Rehman have been found guilty of match-fixing, by a one-man judicial inquiry.  Justice Malik Qayyum recommended life bans for both players and a 1m rupee fine (£12,500) for Malik, following a year long investigation into the allegations.  Judge Qayyum recommended Malik be banned from any connection with cricket, either as a player or manager.  "There is clear evidence of match-fixing against Mr Salim Malik," Judge Qayyum said. "He should be banned for life from cricket. "Further, an inquiry should be conducted into his assets and charges brought against him in a criminal court of law." The inquiry also recommended a 300,000 rupee (£3,300) fine for former cricket captain Wasim Akram, because he failed to co-operate with the judicial inquiry.  The report does not accuse Wasim, who is currently playing for Pakistan's national team in the West Indies, of any wrongdoing, although it recommends that neither Wasim nor Mushtaq Ahmed should be allowed to captain the team. Waqar Younis, Inzamam-ul Haq, Akram Raza, and former captain Saeed Anwar also received fines of 100,000 rupees (£1200) for not co-operating with the board. Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Taqueer Zia said: "Salim Malik is the main culprit. "He has brought the Pakistan national team into disrepute." Neither Malik nor Rehman currently play on the national team. The inquiry was launched in response to charges of betting and match-fixing against several of Pakistan's top cricketers, including former captains Wasim and Malik, spinners Saqlain Mushtaq and Mushtaq Ahmed, medium pace bowler Rehman and batsman Ijaz Ahmed. Judge Qayyum's judicial inquiry investigated several allegations of corruption dating back to 1994, including one made by Australian cricketers Shane Warne and Mark Waugh. The Australian players accused Malik of offering them bribes to perform poorly during an Australian tour of Pakistan. A number of Pakistani cricketers, including former captains Rashid Latif and Aamir Sohail, also accused their teammates of throwing matches. The Pakistan national team is currently touring the West Indies.