Tigers had won the inaugural Premeriship play offs the decade before so also sealed an unprecedented treble.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/in_depth/2000/heineken_cup/1339721.stm
Leicester 34-30 Stade Francais   Leicester ended a magnificent season with a dramatic victory over Stade Francais in Paris to win the Heineken Cup for the first time. Leon Lloyd scored a try in the last minute as the Tigers completed a trophy treble, following their success in winning the Zurich Premiership and the Play-off final. Stade Francais had led for virtually the whole match, with Diego Dominguez scoring all his side's points in a wonderful display of goalkicking. The fly-half kicked nine penalties - including two from the half-way line - and a drop goal to lead the French team to the verge of victory. But Leicester deserved their win for scoring three tries to none. After a dour first half, Lloyd scored in the first and last minutes of the second period and Neil Back added another try to provide the perfect answer to Dominguez's deadly boot. Leicester made up for defeat in the final four years ago, thanks to superb performances from two-try Lloyd, man of the match Austin Healey and Tim Stimpson, who kicked 19 points. This tense final may have been dominated by the boot - but it went right to the wire with Stade Francais looking as though they may sneak the win through the amazing kicking ability of Dominguez. But Leicester put on an exhilarating display in the second half to claim the title. With nearly 45,000 fans packed into the Parc des Princes stadium, the final had one of the most gripping atmospheres witnessed in club rugby. But the spectators might have been disappointed as it soon became apparent that the ball was going to spend more time being booted into the air than passed to hand. Stade soon got the scoring under way in the first four minutes when Diego Dominguez put a penalty kick between the posts from over 40 metres out after Tigers' Pat Howard was caught offside. For the rest of the half, Leicester made a brave effort to keep pace with the French through the kicking power of their own Tim Stimpson With both defences neutralising each other and play concentrated in the centre of the field, Stimpson did well to keep the pressure on Stade with three penalty kicks. However, he was never going to match the sublime accuracy and length of his opposite number, Dominguez. The Argentine-born Italian international capped a brilliant first half performance with an amazing kick from 50 yards out to lift Stade to 15-9 just before the break. The second half, though, rewarded the spectators almost immediately as Lloyd burst down the right side after some impressive work from Pat Howard to score the first try of the game. Stade, unable to break down a resilient Leicester defence, relied heavily on Dominguez again to keep them ahead with more superb kicking. But, 59 minutes in, outside centre Lloyd was again instrumental in Leicester's second try to level the scores at 21-21. He looked to be on the verge of scoring down the right-hand side, but was impeded by Christophe Dominici's late tackle as he chipped the ball on. Leicester were awarded a penalty yards from the line and Neil Back tapped it before diving over for a converted try. Stade in response continued to rely on Dominguez's golden boot to sneak ahead, but Stimpson kept replying to keep Leicester in contention. Finally, Lloyd capped a dramatic Cup final with his second try - scoring in the right-hand corner after a brilliant break through the middle by the livewire Healey. Leicester: T Stimpson; G Murphy, L Lloyd, P Howard, W Stanley; A Goode, A Healey; G Rowntree, D West, D Garforth, M Johnson (capt), B Kay, M Corry, N Back, W Johnson    Replacements: P Freshwater, R Cockerill, R Nebbett, P Gustard, L Moody, J Hamilton, G Gelderbloom. Stade Francais: C Dominici; T Lombard, F Comba, C Mytton, A Gomes; D Dominguez, M Williams; S Marconnet, F Landreau, P De Villiers, D Auradou, M James, C Moni, R Pool-Jones, C Juillet (capt)    Replacements: M Blin, P Lemoine, D George, P Tabacco, D Venditti, J Berthe, C Laussucq.