The small number of village schools lead to necessarily small rolls, and further recent falls in pupil numbers have led to plans being drawn up for closures including all of the rural secondary departments.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6960478.stm
The council said it had no choice because the curriculum was changing and pupil numbers were falling.  The news came as Education Secretary Fiona Hyslop visited Lewis to announce plans to fund three new teaching posts in the islands.  It is expected that parents in some areas will resist the plans, which will be discussed by councillors next week.  The Comhairle wants to close four primary schools next year: Craigston Primary in Barra, Staoinebrig school in South Uist, Cliasmol school in Harris and Bràgar school in Lewis.  It also wants to close the seven junior secondary schools in which pupils get the first two years of secondary education.  Under the plans Bayble High School in Point, Lewis, and Daliburgh High School in South Uist, will close next year, with Sgoil nan Loch in Lewis and Paible High School in North Uist closing in 2009.  They would be followed by the closure of Shawbost School, Lional School and Back High School by 2013.  The chair of the Comhairle's education committee, Mòrag Munro, said the recommendations would go before the full council on Monday.  Speaking on BBC Rèidio nan Gàidheal's morning news programme, Aithris na Maidne, the councillor said: "No decision has been made yet. It is up to the members to make that decision.  "No final decision can be made until after the public consultation process."  The curriculum is changing to the extent that the Comhairle does not believe it can be delivered in the current schools.  Ms Munro added that the Comhairle had long had a policy based on the number of pupils in primary schools, and the distance they would have to travel to the next school.  Parents are worried about the proposed closures.  John Norman MacAuley, a parent from Bràgar in Lewis, said on Aithris na Maidne that he did not know why the closure was being proposed.  "In the last three years, seven new pupils have started each year. That's a very healthy number," he said.  "I think it's better for children, especially at that age, to be in their own community, and they have that here.  "They get an excellent education in Bràgar primary, and I can't see how it could be better. We're very satisfied anyway."  The Western Isles MSP Alasdair Allan said he was worried about the effect the proposed closures would have on communities and on the Gaelic language.  "I went to a small school, and that school was closed. It wasn't at all good for the community."  "If we want to promote Gaelic in the schools, is that easier in the Gaelic-speaking communities themselves, or in Stornoway?"  "There's strong support in the Western Isles for junior secondaries, and I'll be making the case for their retention."  Ms Hyslop said she was "very, very surprised" at the news.  She added that the situation should have been handled much better.