The mothers in those cases were wrongly convicted of murdering two or more of their children, and had already been imprisoned for up to six days.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/4723778.stm
Angela Cannings, whose convictions for killing her two sons were overturned in 2003, said she was "disheartened".  Donna Anthony, whose convictions for murdering her children were also overturned, said she just wanted an apology from the paediatrician.  His initial evidence was given in the case of solicitor Sally Clark.  She was convicted in 1999 of the murder of her two baby sons, but the verdict was later overturned in the appeal court.  During Mrs Clark's original trial, Sir Roy said the probability of two natural unexplained cot deaths in the family was 73 million to one.  The figure was later disputed by the Royal Statistical Society and other experts said that once genetic and environmental factors were taken into consideration, the odds of a second cot death in the same family were closer to 200 to one.  John Batt , a family friend and solicitor for the Clarks said: "The family has been consistent right the way through - all they have wanted is that those who were responsible for this miscarriage of justice be called to account for what they did.  "The fundamental point that the Clark family made is they wanted the people who put her in jail wrongly, for two heinous crimes that never happened, be called publicly to account for what they did and that has happened."  Mrs Cannings' convictions for smothering her seven-week-old son Jason in 1991 and 18-week-old Michael in 1999 were overturned in 2003.  She told the BBC: "On a personal level it's very hard for us to accept when expert witnesses do make mistakes in the courtroom and you have a knock-on devastation effect on families involved.  "If an expert witness gives evidence in their field of expertise they should have no reluctance at all to go into a courtroom.  "It's when they are approached about areas outside their expertise then they should look up and say 'sorry I can't deal with this, and actually step back.  "But I believe in a lot of these cases this didn't happen and they were in effect encouraged to bring other evidence into the courtroom and we believe the devastating result is you do get families torn apart by what happens."  Mrs Anthony was jailed for life in 1998 for killing her daughter Jordan, aged 11 months, in 1996 and four-month-old son Michael in 1997, but freed at her second appeal.  Speaking after the High Court verdict, she said she had "mixed emotions".  She told Sky News: "It seems to me he is now able once again to ruin other people's lives just like he has mine.  "Personally, all I have wanted for the last seven years is a simple apology and for him to admit he got it wrong.  "He has never spoken to me, he has never written to me, he has never even telephoned me or any of my family, so how can he base an opinion purely just on what he has read?  "He should have at least contacted the people he helped convict, if you will, to get some of their own personal feelings on things and he never did that with any of us."