In 1999, she was named BBC Personality of the Day.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/276202.stm
The Variety Club of Great Britain has celebrated its favourites in showbusiness, naming comedian Steve Coogan as its personality of the year.  Coogan, best known for his BBC Two show I'm Alan Partridge, has recently completed a sell out one-man stage show The Man Who Thinks He's It with characters like Tony Ferrino and Pauline Calf.  He is about to star in the lead role of The Probation Offiicer - a movie he co-wrote with Henry Normal, who penned BBC One's Mrs Merton Show and BBC Two's The Royle Family.  Variety hands out prizes across the showbusiness spectrum every year. It named screen stars Ewan McGregor, Kate Winslet as Film Actor and Actress this time around.  Others to pick up titles at a celebrity-packed ceremony at the London Hilton included the former footballer Vinnie Jones, who won the Sir James Carreras Award for Outstanding New Talent for his first film role in the British hit Lock, Stock And Two Smoking Barrels. On the small screen, Barbara Windsor won the BBC Personality award for her role as Peggy Mitchell in EastEnders. And Chris Tarrant won the ITV equivilent for hosting Tarrant on TV and Who Wants To Be A Millionaire. David Suchet, who won acclaim for his part in Amadeus at London's Old Vic, was named Stage Actor of 1998 while Dame Judi Dench, who appeared in Amy's View and Filumena, took the title of Stage Actress.  Radio 1 DJ Zoe Ball, whose popularity is on the up according to latest figures, picked up Variety's Radio Personality prize. The charity chose Newsnight's Jeremy Paxman as Media Personality and lyricist Sir Tim Rice was honoured for his Outstanding Contribution To Showbusiness. Over the years he has provided the words to numerous big stage musicals after starting out as a songwriter with EMI Records. He is now an established broadcaster and co-author of the Guinness Book Of British Hit Singles. The full ist of winners in the 47th annual Variety Club Showbusiness Awards was: