A 2006 survey of British TV viewers, her behaviour on the show was voted the fourth "most shocking" TV chat show moment ever.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/4637648.stm
Grace Jones slapping Russell Harty live on air in 1981 has been named the most shocking TV chat show moment of all time in a survey of 2,000 TV viewers.  Next on the list was former BBC presenter David Icke telling Terry Wogan he was "a son of the Godhead".  Actress Meg Ryan saying veteran host Michael Parkinson should end her interview was third.  The poll was commissioned to celebrate the launch of the UKTV Gold chat show Wogan: Now and Then.  Tara Palmer Tomkinson's dishevelled performance on ITV1's Frank Skinner show a week before she checked into rehab came fourth.  The notorious episode when The Bee Gees stormed off Clive Anderson's show came fifth, followed by the Sex Pistols' expletive-ridden rant in 1976 to interviewer Bill Grundy on the early evening TV programme Today.  Headline-hitting Tom Cruise was next for his interview on Oprah Winfrey's show, when he jumped on the sofa in his enthusiasm to express his love for his girlfriend Katie Holmes.  It was the only US moment to make it into the top 10.  UKTV Gold channel head James Newton said: "These are the classic chat show moments which people throughout the country talked about at the time and still remember with great fondness."  1. Grace Jones on Russell Harty (1981)   Grace Jones slapped Russell Harty across the face after the presenter turned his back on her to speak to the other guests on the programme. She said she was being ignored. 2. David Icke on Wogan (1991)  Sports presenter and former footballer David Icke pronounced himself the "son of Godhead" to Terry Wogan. 3. Meg Ryan on Parkinson (2003)    The Hollywood actress, who was promoting her new film In the Cut, became monosyllabic when answering Parkinson's questions. She ignored her fellow guests, fashion gurus Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine. The interview made global headlines. 4. Tara Palmer Tomkinson on Frank Skinner (1999)  The socialite made a disjointed appearance on the Frank Skinner show. Within 48 hours, she was packed off to an exclusive addiction clinic in Arizona. 5. Bee Gees on Clive Anderson's All Talk (1997)    The three brothers told Anderson they had once-toyed with the idea of calling themselves Les Tosseurs. Anderson quipped: "You've always been tossers to me." They stormed off the show. 6. The Sex Pistols on Bill Grundy (1976)   The Sex Pistols made front-page news following their foul-mouthed appearance on the Today television show hosted by Bill Grundy. 7. George Best on Wogan (1991)   Best appeared on the nightly chat show having got drunk first in the green room. 8. Matthew Kelly on Frank Skinner (2003)   Matthew Kelly used his appearance on the Frank Skinner show to confront the host over his "horrible" jokes about Kelly's arrest over a sex abuse allegation for which he was later fully cleared by police. 9. Tom Cruise on Oprah (2005)   The Hollywood star took centre stage on Oprah, by jumping up and down on the sofa, throwing his hands in the air and yelling about his feelings for new love Katie Holmes. 10. Rod Hull and Emu on Parkinson (1976)   Rod Hull's hand puppet Emu was launched into an unprovoked and sustained attack on Michael Parkinson, knocking him off his chair and leaving him dishevelled and disoriented.      What are these?