Coe's presentation at the critical IOC meeting in July 2005 was viewed by commentators as being particularly effective, against tough competition from Paris and Madrid, and the Delhi bid won the IOC's blessing on 6 July.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/other_sports/olympics_2012/4656275.stm
He may have won two Olympic golds and smashed 12 world records, but Coe's achievement in leading London to victory eclipsed them all.  "This is almost entirely on a different planet to winning the gold medals," Coe said.  His jubilation was understandable as it was his leadership which helped London claim sport's biggest prize.  The London bid was initially way off the pace and when the five candidate cities were shortlisted, London was rated third behind Madrid and favourites Paris.  But with the timing that he showed so often in an illustrious running career, Coe helped London produce the late charge which saw them pip their French rivals.  He joined London's team as one of three vice-chairmen two years ago but by May 2004 he was in charge - taking over from American businesswoman Barbara Cassani.  Coe had been a member of various British sporting committees as well as winning a place on the ruling council of athletics' governing body, the IAAF.  And with quiet determination, Coe began to turn the fortunes of London's bid around.  "I felt our natural instinct was to make our strategy based around sport and getting more young people involved both domestically and internationally," he said.  "I decided this was what really spoke about us most loudly as a nation and it is far easier to follow a campaign that you believe in."  Emphasis was made on the legacy of the Games for London and Britain, as well as trying to address concerns over the capital's transport system.  The use of stars such as David Beckham, Sir Matthew Pinsent and Sir Steve Redgrave gave the bid an air of authority that was hard to ignore.  With sporting figures, politicians and the public lending support, the IOC's evaluation commission gave a glowing report after their visit to London in February and the race was well and truly on.  Coe campaigned tirelessly and by the time the world's focus turned to Singapore for the crucial vote on Wednesday, the London bid had incredible momentum.  "When I was 12 years old I was marched into a large school hall with my classmates and we watched grainy pictures from the 1968 Mexico Olympic Games," he told the delegates.  "Two athletes from our home town were competing. John Sherwood won a bronze medal in the 400m hurdles. His wife Sheila just narrowly missed gold in the long jump.  "By the time I was back in my classroom, I knew what I wanted to do - and what I wanted to be. Thirty-five years on, I stand before you with those memories still fresh. Still inspired by this great movement."  His speech, in the final moments of an incredibly close battle, turned the race in London's favour.  BBC Radio Five Live's athletics correspondent John Rawling said: "His final speech was fantastic. It was statesmanlike. It was just a stunning performance - he touched every bullet point of the London bid.  "And the way in which he went back and touched on his own career and told what it meant when he watched the Olympics in 1968 was brilliant."  Coe left such a mark on the London bid that IOC president Jacques Rogge paid tribute to him following the vote announcement.  "Most of the London winners have had a long journey in the Olympic movement," he said.  "I met Seb for the first time on the steps of the Olympic restaurant in Moscow in 1980 when he had won gold.  "Someone introduced us and we could not have believed at that time that we would be signing the host country contract now."  And his former middle-distance rival Steve Cram summed up what Coe has done for the Olympic bid.  "Seb has done a fantastic job and made every single effort to make sure we couldn't turn round and say we hadn't done this or that," said Cram.  "If there is one guy you want to be in there fighting for you, it's Seb."  Before the result was announced, Coe had said: "If we win I'll carry the flame home, if we lose I'll carry the can."  So many times in his athletics career he was on the shoulders of his rivals on the final bend before producing his trademark kick for home to claim victory.  And he did just that in Singapore to claim Olympic glory for Britain once again.