Following a possible move to West Brom which was later vetoed by then Manager Gary Megson, he was eventually snapped up by Division One side Walsall in summer 2003.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/3070669.stm
Manager Colin Lee said the 35-year-old former England international was the club's biggest ever signing.  And Lee plans to groom Merson for a coaching and management role at the Bescot Stadium once he decides his playing days are over.  Merson has agreed a two-year deal with the club and completed a financial settlement with Portsmouth, where he had a year left to run on his contract.  "There's been a lot of hard work over the last few weeks," he said.  "I'm delighted he's come on board. He will bring a lot to the team and the football club.  "To achieve his signature is something I don't think anyone even dreamed of.  "We've got to make sure we get better results than last year. I'm hoping Paul and the other new signings will make us a better team and take this club forward, which was always my intention."  Merson helped steer Pompey to the First Division title last season and his move to Walsall represents a coup for Lee.  The 35-year-old said the chance to play for a club closer to home was behind the move.  "I'm looking forward to meeting up with the team - they play total football here," he said. "It's a fresh new challenge and we'll see what happens.  "I thought that would be impossible. I wanted to get home to the Midlands.  "I had a great time at Portsmouth. The players were a different class - it was a team effort last year and I'd like to thank all the players down there."  Pompey boss Redknapp paid tribute to the former Arsenal, Middlesbrough and Aston Villa star.  "He did a great job for me last year and I'm forever grateful for what he did," Redknapp told this website.  "He was a major reason why we got where we did last year he did fantastic for us.  "But he doesn't feel he can play in the Premier now and I think he knows himself better than anybody.  "He said he played in the Premier League two years ago and found it difficult, so he certainly didn't think it was going to be easier now.  "There's a massive difference between where we've come from and the Premier but he'll do a great job for Walsall."