I is living in her garage".
www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainment-arts-20696034
Sacha Baron Cohen has been honoured with an outstanding achievement gong at the British Comedy Awards in London.  It comes 13 years after he won best newcomer at the event, which was aired on Channel 4 on Wednesday night.  Accepting his statue from Sir Ben Kingsley in the guise of Ali G, Baron-Cohen said: "I is grown up now. I ain't living in my nan's house anymore. I am living in her garage".  He was wearing a gold tracksuit with the word "Savile" on the back.  In a pop at the late presenter accused of a string of sex offences, the character said: "Can you believe it's been ten years since I's been on the telly? Times has been tough means me now well skint. These day I has got to buy me tracksuits from second hand shops."  The Black Mirror writer beat competition from Stephen Fry, Graham Norton and Harry Hill to win the prize.  Lee Mack won best male TV comic and Jo Brand best female, with Morgana Robinson named as breakthrough artist for her celebrity impersonations.  Best entertainment programme went to Harry Hill's TV Burp, which has now finished, marking its fourth award in seven straight years of nominations.  Hunderby, a period comedy set in the 1800s, written by and starring Nighty-Night creator Julia Davis, took home two statues, one for best sitcom and the other for best new comedy programme.  Rebecca Front won her first British Comedy prize, best TV actress, for her role as hapless government minister Nicola Murray in The Thick Of It.  It was the first of two prizes for the political fly-on-the-wall series as Peter Capaldi took home best TV actor for his portrayal of political spin-doctor Malcolm Tucker.  As previously announced, Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer were awarded the prestigious Writers Guild of Great Britain accolade for their surreal brand of comedy, marking the fourth British Comedy award in their collection.  Fresh Meat star and stand-up comedian Jack Whitehall was crowned winner of the King of Comedy award, revealed on the night after a public vote.  The newcomer, who beat Alan Carr, Sarah Millican and Graham Norton, said: "This feels a little bit like when The Only Way Is Essex got a Bafta."