In the closing phase of the race, Coulthard passed both da Matta and Trulli to earn fifth place.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/motorsport/formula_one/3081859.stm
The Brazilian led home Williams driver Juan Pablo Montoya, who passed McLaren's Kimi Raikkonen with 12 laps to go after the Finn made an error.  A mistake had also cost Raikkonen the lead a few laps earlier when he ran wide coming out of the 160mph Bridge corner and Barrichello was able to slip past.  Raikkonen finished just ahead of Michael Schumacher, whose championship lead is now seven points with five races to go.  Schumacher was badly penalised by the delay caused by the intruder and dropped to 14th place, but recovered in his customary superb fashion.  McLaren's David Coulthard, who was delayed when a piece of bodywork came off his car early in the race, was fifth after passing Jarno Trulli's Renault with one lap to go, with Cristiano da Matta's Toyota and the BAR of Jenson Button following behind.  The Englishman passed BAR team-mate Jacques Villeneuve at the final pit stops.  The moment that turned the race on its head came when a man dressed in a green kilt ran on to Hangar Straight, the fastest part of the Silverstone circuit, on lap 12, forcing race officials to bring out the safety car until the danger was cleared.  He was eventually tackled by a track marshal after virtually the entire field had blasted past him at high speed.  During the safety car period, virtually the entire field pitted, but some drivers - including Schumacher - were badly delayed by having to sit in line behind their team-mates.  After all drivers had rejoined the track, the Toyotas of Da Matta and Olivier Panis led the race, with Raikkonen, Coulthard, Trulli, Barrichello and Montoya close behind.  Raikkonen managed to pass Panis straight away and he and Da Matta built a lead while Barrichello was delayed in a train behind Panis.  But Ferrari had the quickest car at Silverstone and Barrichello steadily picked off his rivals, in some cases benefiting from pit stops, to move into second place behind Raikkonen.  Barrichello closed in with a series of fastest laps and was right on the McLaren's tail as they finished their final pit stops.  He passed Raikkonen two laps after they rejoined the race and the Finn dropped another place to Montoya seven laps later.  At the same time, Schumacher's Ferrari was carving up the order, and he passed Trulli for fourth on the same lap as Raikkonen lost out to Montoya.  Ralf Schumacher, who had qualified third for Williams, was running fourth in the early laps but struggled after his first pit stop because a guide vane had become detached from his car.  He was forced to make an extra stop for tyres as a result and finished ninth after Villeneuve pulled off the track on the last lap.  Ralph Firman was 13th for Jordan, with Justin Wilson 16th for Minardi, ahead only of Sauber driver Nick Heidfeld.