As he turned to face them, they shot him dead at a distance of 15 feet (5 m).
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/2055711.stm
A police marksman who opened fire at a man carrying a table leg told an inquest he thought he was about to be shot.  PC Kevin Fagan told St Pancras Coroner's Court: "I fired one shot because I feared that in a second I was about to be killed."  Harry Stanley, 46, was shot dead as he walked from the Alexandra pub in Hackney, east London, to his home in Warneford Street, on 22 September, 1999.  Mr Stanley was carrying a coffee table leg which had just been repaired but police thought he had a gun.  Mr Fagan and his colleague, Inspector Neil Sharman, both of the Metropolitan Police firearms unit, were responding to an emergency call stating that an "Irishman" fitting Mr Stanley's description was carrying a shotgun tightly wrapped in a blue plastic bag.  They followed him along the street in a police car before approaching him on foot.  Mr Fagan told the hearing he shouted "armed police" before firing his Glock 17 handgun from about 15 feet away.  He said Mr Stanley had turned around in a "deliberate fluid movement" and aimed, what he believed was a weapon, at him.  Mr Fagan said: "He stopped deliberately, turned on his left-hand side and as he turned I saw him begin to level the object.  "He turned around and in one fluid deliberate movement turned around. The object was pointing towards me.  "My attention was drawn to this object pointing at me. I thought it was a sawn-off shotgun.  "He was clutching what I thought was a sawn-off shotgun with both hands at this point.  "I thought I was about to be shot and killed by someone holding a sawn-off shotgun."  Later in the hearing, a move by the coroner to discuss the previous convictions of Mr Stanley brought him into conflict with a solicitor.  Inner North London Coroner Dr Stephen Chan repeatedly ordered Tim Owen, a solicitor representing the Stanley family, to "sit down" as he tried to interrupt.  The coroner allowed information about Mr Stanley's criminal past to be heard before the jury.  This included four years' imprisonment for grievous bodily harm with intent in December 1993.  When Dr Chan asked if a shotgun had been used in an armed robbery Mr Stanley had been involved in Mr Owen said: "There is absolutely no relevance in this whatsoever."