Bhutan were seriously hampered in this game by their years in the footballing wilderness, but did not help themselves in the match conceding four penalties in total for what were described as "rugby-like challenges" and having two players sent off.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sport/football/645185.stm
               Japan's Masashi Nakayama netted three times in the opening four minutes against Brunei to record the fastest hat-trick in the history of international football.    He scored on one minute, two minutes and three minutes 15 seconds as the tiny Asian state crashed to a 9-0 defeat in their Asian Cup qualifier.      The Japan star's feat - subject to official confirmation - improves on the 62-year-old mark set by England's George Hall, who completed his treble against Ireland in three minutes 30 seconds.      Nakayama's first strike was a simple knock-in from six yards after veteran striker Kazuyoshi Miura put him through.      Miura also set up the second, when a ricocheted shot rebounded kindly for his team-mate to volley home.      Kuwait 20-0 Bhutan      Goal three was the pick of the bunch as Nakayama outstripped the defence, drew the keeper wide and curled the ball into the top of the net.    But Brunei can take some comfort from the fact that this was not the worst thrashing dished out during the qualifiers for next October's finals in Lebanon.      On Tuesday, Kuwait obliterated Bhutan 20-0, with Bashar Abdullah claiming eight goals and six other players, including goalkeeper Ahmad Jasim, also getting their names on the scoresheet.      The Bhutanese lack experience, having only just returned to international competition after years of isolation. Their cause was not helped by having two players sent off and conceding four penalties for rugby tackle-style challenges in the area.      China produced a similarly massive scoreline recently when they walloped the tiny Pacific island of Guam 19-0.      These massive margins of defeat have prompted the Asian Football Confederation to consider restructuring the qualifying rounds.      "Our priority is to give every one of our member nations the chance to compete and the opportunity to improve their football," said AFC General Secretary Peter Velappan.      "We want respectable scores. Clearly after such one-sided matches it is time for us to reconsider our structure."