She had wanted £6m from Grant.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/158799.stm
The Beatles enjoyed massive popularity in the former Soviet Union - but fans had to wait 28 years before they could see one of the Fab Four live.  "It would have been nice if we could have come a bit earlier, but I tell you it's better late than never," he told a packed auditorium in Moscow.  The 2,400 mostly middle-aged fans were treated to a series of covers from his Fourth All-Starr Band, including Love Me Do and Yellow Submarine  On Wednesday the group, which also features Peter Frampton on guitar and former Cream bass player Jack Bruce and Procul Harum keyboardist Garry Brooker, will play their second and final Russian date in St Petersburg.  Bob Geldof's career as a radio DJ got off to the wrong start on Tuesday - after he wrongly announced the death of rock veteran Ian Dury.  Mr Geldof, who is currently hosting the drivetime show on London's Xfm, told listeners the station had learned through a "private caller" of Mr Dury's death.  He then ended his show by playing one of his old hits, Reasons To Be Cheerful Part III. But minutes later he was back on air to broadcast an apology to Mr Dury's family and stunned fans who had called the station, fearing the Blockheads frontman had lost his fight with cancer.  "It appears we received the wrong information and we can confirm Ian Dury is alive," Geldof said.  It is reported Geldof may have been the victim of a hoax by disgruntled Xfm listeners, angry at a relaunch on Monday by new owners Capital Radio.  Chat show king Des O'Connor wants to get former Spice Girl Geri Halliwell singing again.  He announced Geri would be a guest when his ITV show returns next month in a new Friday night slot, and added: "I'd love her to do her first solo number on this show and I might talk her into doing a duet."  Des, whose previous guests include Prime Minister Tony Blair and Opposition leader William Hague, is also trying for a satellite link-up with US President Bill Clinton.  But he denied claims that Geri - who was a gameshow hostess on Turkish TV before she joined the Spice Girls - is to become his new sidekick on his own quiz show, Take Your Pick.  Priscilla Presley has won more than £46,000 in a defamation lawsuit brought against a man who claimed they had an affair before she married Elvis.  Lavern Currie Grant, an army buddy of the late rock'n'roll legend, alleged he had an intimate relationship with Priscilla which she denied.  Ms Presley, who has always maintained she was a virgin when she wed Elvis, had wanted £6m from Grant after his false allegations appeared in a book.  Bush have been voted Best British Band at rock music's top award ceremony.  The London-based quartet, whose fortunes have been greater in the US than in Britain, were awarded the accolade at the 1998 Kerrang! Awards.  Shock rockers Marilyn Manson were named Best Band In The World for the second year running, Motorhead's Lemmy won a songwriting award, while Stereophonics were Best New British Band.  Other winners, voted for by readers of Kerrang! magazine, included Mighty Mighty Bosstones for Best Single and the Deftones for Best Album.  A host of stars are about to appear in a "Perfect Day" style BBC campaign promoting the launch of digital broadcasting.  The Adventure Starts Here, to be shown for the first time on Saturday, uses state-of-the-art effects to create a seamless "virtual reality" journey.  Among those taking part are EastEnders star Martine McCutcheon, drum and bass maestro Goldie and Chelsea player-manager Gianluca Vialli.  The film will back a £1m bid to inform BBC licence payers about forthcoming digital services on TV and radio.