He netted in games against West Ham, which made him a local hero.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/2674795.stm
West Ham plunged into further relegation trouble after being beaten by local rivals Charlton in a fiery London derby.  The Hammers took the lead through Edouard Cisse but their joy was short-lived.  Claus Jensen's superb free-kick levelled for the home side and a double from Addicks midfielder Scott Parker put Charlton 3-1 up.  A Mark Fish own goal reduced West Ham's deficit to set up a grandstand finish but a late Radostin Kishishev goal secured the three points for Charlton.  West Ham started with striker Les Ferdinand making his debut and Lee Bowyer lining up for them against the club he left for Leeds as English football's most expensive teenager in July 1996.  And Bowyer was in menacing mood from the start as he tangled with Charlton's Shaun Bartlett before sending Parker crashing over the advertising hoardings.  Bartlett skied a volley over and Jensen produced a good run down Charlton's left but there was no home player to convert his pull-back from the by-line.  The belligerent Bowyer was soon grabbing the attention again and both he and Parker were booked after angrily squaring up to each other.  Charlton keeper Dean Kiely blocked from Jermain Defoe to atone for an error from defender Richard Rufus before West Ham took the lead.  Cisse scored his first goal for the Hammers when he lobbed Kiely despite being under-pressure from Rufus.  Jason Euell went close for the home team as they pressed for an equaliser, which came just before half-time.  It got worse for the visitors when Euell found Parker and, even though James got a hand to his left-foot shot, he could not stop it going in.  West Ham's defence looked anything but secure and Parker's left-foot volley from the edge of the area shortly after the interval extended Charlton's lead.  The Hammers are fighting for Premiership survival and they set up an exciting finale when Michael Carrick's shot was deflected in by Addicks defender Fish.  Kishishev added a fourth for Charlton on the stroke of full-time and West Ham's only consolation on a disappointing night was that fellow strugglers Bolton lost at Newcastle.