Reasons for performing forced marriages include: strengthening extended family links; controlling unwanted behavior and sexuality; preventing 'unsuitable' relationships; protecting and abiding by perceived cultural or religious norms; keeping the wealth in the extended family; dealing with the consequences of pregnancy out of wedlock; considering the contracting of a marriage as the duty of the parents; obtaining a guarantee against poverty; aiding immigration.
www.bbc.co.uk/ethics/forcedmarriage/motives_1.shtml
Why do they happen? People force others into marriage due to a range of factors such as preserving wealth and family reputation. "Parents may have made a promise when the child was young and they feel they can't let the other family down," says Sue, from Central Manchester Women's Aid. "The victim's parents may call them [their children] selfish and they are told they are bringing shame on the honour of the family." Many victims are subject to emotional blackmail and physical threats. A number of them may be forced to marry a member of their extended family, for example, a cousin. The UK's Forced Marriage Unit (FMU) have outlined the following reasons why people coerce others into matrimony: To control unwanted behaviour and sexuality, and prevent ‘unsuitable’ relationships, i.e. with people outside their ethnic, cultural, caste or religious group To ensure land, property and wealth remain in the family To assist claims for residence and citizenship To provide a carer for a disabled family member / reduce the ‘stigma’ of disability  Some young people, especially of South Asian background, are tricked into visiting their family's country of origin for a holiday, only to find that there are plans to get them married there. They may be isolated, have no access to money, telephones or their passports, and their movement will be restricted. The local British embassy will get involved if the victim - or someone they know - informs them or the UK's Forced Marriage Unit about their situation. Making the contact may involve some risk for the victim hence under-reporting is fairly common. Therefore visitors are recommended to leave details of their passport, flights and overseas residence with a trusted friend in the UK and contact the Foreign Office before they travel. Even though they are abroad, victims still have the right to legal protection as the people forcing them into marriage may be in breach of the law in the UK and other countries.  People who are being forced into marriage face many problems. Privately, they may feel frightened, lonely and withdraw into themselves. This can lead onto mental and physical health problems including depression, eating disorders and self-harm. They may develop poor attendance and performance at their workplace or educational institution. Although both men and women are affected, the latter especially encounter many difficulties after the forced marriage occurs. They are often apart from their family and can suffer domestic abuse at the hands of their husband or in-laws. Those who have lived in an unconsented union for a long time may find it difficult to leave, especially if they have children. They may experience financial problems, lack of family support and stigma in their community. The victim may also worry about the consequences for their in-laws and their own family if they walk out on a forced marriage and report it to an authority. Laws and helplines have been set up in the UK to help people in these situations.