It has the largest audience of any BBC channel, with an estimated 76 million viewers weekly in 2014, part of the estimated 265 million users of the BBC's four main international news services.
www.bbc.co.uk/mediacentre/latestnews/2014/global-news-audience-265m
The BBC plays a vital role in troubled times... and this is borne out by the sharp increase in audiences in Russia and Ukraine.  The Global Audience Estimate (GAE) measures the combined reach of the BBC’s international services - BBC World Service, BBC World News, bbc.com/news and BBC Media Action - across the world.  Russia has shown the biggest growth for a single market, with the audience more than doubling to 6.9m weekly as people turn to the BBC for trustworthy and impartial news. The BBC’s Ukrainian Service also reflects this trend with its audience more than trebling to more than 600,000 over the last year.  BBC World News TV shows an increase of 5m viewers, taking its weekly audience to 76m.  The Indian audience has grown, and shows signs of recovering from the last few years of decline. This comes thanks to investments in digital and TV for the Hindi Service, including the launch of the Global India programme on TV - which pulls in 6m weekly viewers - and an increase in World News viewers. These increases more than offset the loss of shortwave listeners to the Hindi Service.  BBC digital news services have continued to grow, with an 8m, or 21 per cent, year-on-year increase, bringing the digital audience to 46m.  Peter Horrocks, Director of the BBC World Service Group, says: “Today’s figures show the most successful year ever for the BBC’s global news services.  “The BBC plays a vital role in troubled times. We know that people around the world turn to the BBC when other impartial information is in short supply, and this is borne out by the sharp increase in audiences in Russia and Ukraine.  “Investment in TV bulletins and responsive mobile services for the World Service is bearing fruit. Radio will be a World Service mainstay for years to come, but as these figures testify, the way people access news is changing and we must continue to innovate if we are to flourish in the years ahead.”  Other findings of the Global Audience Estimate include:  Independent research from Newswhip has shown that the BBC is by far the world’s most retweeted news brand.  The BBC is currently exploring innovative new ways of measuring its audience impact around the world to reflect changing audience behaviours around the world.  An infographic of the BBC Global Audience Estimate 2014 findings is available to download as a PDF here.  An animated guide to the Estimate's key findings is available to watch on YouTube.