The game ended 2–0 to Liverpool.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/champions_league/1626478.stm
Liverpool eased into the second phase of the Champions League with a comfortable victory over disappointing opponents at Anfield.  Dortmund were restricted to only a handful of chances as Liverpool turned in a superbly disciplined performance.  Vladimir Smicer opened the scoring for the home side early in the first half and defender Stephen Wright made sure of victory late on.  Dortmund, who could have qualified for the second phase with a draw, were desperately poor. But this was due in large part to Liverpool's authoritative performance. Their reshuffled defence, with Jamie Carragher alongside Stephane Henchoz in the middle and Wright at right-back, dealt comfortably with the few attacks that Dortmund mustered. Steven Gerrard and Dietmar Hamann were authoritative in midfield and Smicer provided some bright touches. It was the Czech playmaker who gave Liverpool their breakthrough after 15 minutes. Henchoz pumped forward a long ball to Heskey in the area. The England striker headed back to the edge of the area to Smicer, who struck a sweet left-footed volley past Lehmann into the far corner. Dortmund seemed frightened of the pace of Michael Owen and defended very deep. They carved out a rare chance when Evanilson's shot from the right corner of the area was cleared to Sorenson, who struck a low shot marginally wide of the far post.  Liverpool were content to sit on their lead, but Lehamnn had to be alert to block an inswinging John Arne Riise free-kick near the interval. The visitors failed to make much more of an impression after the break, despite needing to win to have a chance of progressing to the second phase. Liverpool rarely needed to extend themselves. They went close when lungeing Owen was inches away from connecting with an excellent Gerrard cross. And near the end Wright sealed victory when, unmarked, he headed a Patrik Berger free-kick home from inside the six yard box. Dortmund forward Lars Ricken beat Liverpool keeper Jerzy Dudek with a curling shot near the end, but the ball rebounded back off the crossbar. In truth, Dortmund did not deserve any more.