In the UK, this tradition ended in 2001 after a steward was injured in a pitch invasion at a one-day match between England and Pakistan.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/1393761.stm
A cricket steward has been taken to hospital suffering suspected broken ribs and other injuries after a pitch invasion marred Pakistan's victory over England. Hundreds of fans charged onto the Headingley pitch and England captain Alec Stewart took the unusual decision to concede the game on "safety grounds" with Pakistan still two runs short of their 157 target. A West Yorkshire Police spokesman said disorder continued around the Leeds ground after the match and officers made several arrests. The scenes at the NatWest Series game have been condemned as "disgraceful" by players and pundits alike. The injured steward was hurt as he attempted to protect Headingley's high-tech stumps from supporters, and was carried from the playing area on a stretcher. A West Yorkshire Police spokesman said: "Some people have been arrested. Exact numbers are not clear at this stage. "There has been some damage at the ground." Later, another spokesman said the situation had calmed down. Former England coach David Lloyd branded the invasion "a mad stampede" and said he feared it would lead to calls for perimeter fencing to be introduced for one-day internationals. An England and Wales Cricket Board spokesman said the steward had been kicked and suffered multiple injuries. "He was knocked to the ground and he was kicked. He has two broken ribs and he has suffered some damage to his spleen and he is being kept in hospital overnight." Chris Hassell, chief executive of Yorkshire County Cricket Club, which staged the match, said it would hold an inquiry into events surrounding the invasion. "We are looking into the issues now and we will be having a review in the next 24 hours to look at the situation," he said.    We were going to lose anyway - but it makes it a very sad day for English cricket    "We might make a statement then but it is too early to draw any conclusions yet." Mr Hassell said the club would keep in contact with Leeds General Hospital to stay updated about the steward's condition. Pakistan captain Waqar Younis said: "I was sad at the end the way it finished. We have got to do something about the security." The unruly events occurred despite the England and Wales Cricket Board stepping up security following a pitch invasion during the opening match of the tournament between the England and Pakistan earlier this month at Edgbaston. Stewart said: "We were disappointed with the scenes at Edgbaston and it's happened again. At the end we've seen some disgraceful scenes. "We were going to lose anyway - but it (the pitch invasion) makes it a very sad day for English cricket."