They received prize money of £10,000.
www.bbc.co.uk/whenwillibefamous/news/showthree.shtml
In Show Three of When Will I Be Famous? Graham Norton presented another seven acts to the nation, battling out with last week's winner to be the winner of £10,000.  First we had what Graham called the 'Battle of the Bends', with Rubber Boy up against Captain Frodo.  Dave Spikey was almost lost for words, "Wow, did that make everybody go queasy? I've got a little bit of sick in the back of my throat. What fantastic positions Rubber Boy. You'd never leave the house."  "And Captain Frodo, I thought, 'Bjorn Borg's let himself go a bit, hasn't he?'... the comedy and patter were hilarious. Vote for Frodo!" The Armchair voters did just that, with 79 per cent voting for him.  The next showdown Graham named 'Child's Play'. First up were choir boys Libera, followed by drummers Richard and Peter Rayner.  "None of these acts made it for me," said Chuck, "Bring back the dog act. Peter and Richard you play the drums well, but where's the showmanship? You guys that sing, get better clothes."  But it wasn't up to the panel - 69 per cent of the armchair judges voted to put Libera through to the final.  The penultimate showdown Graham dubbed the 'Body Beautiful', with David O'Mer battling Chloe Bruce.  "I think Chloe can see that it's going to be the films and the stunt work [for her] and, with a little bit of luck, and a major break, you could become a Bond villainess," said Max Clifford, adding, "I think David is a highly original talent... it's an act with tremendous potential." It was a close run thing, but in the end 57 per cent of the armchair judges put Chloe through.  The final showdown of the evening was a 'Daredevil Duel', with the Wakefield Tumblers taking on the Skating Aratas, the winners of Show Two.  "Graham, you know how I loved the Skating Aratas," said Chuck. "I didn't think you were going to make it this week with something new, but you did - it's wonderful." "The Wakefield Tumblers do a great job; they're as cute as can be," he added, "but it's hard to beat the Skating Aratas." The people agreed - narrowly - with 52 per cent voting for the Aratas.  In the results show, our four top acts of the evening came back to face a public phone vote. The votes frozen, it was announced that Libera would face the Skating Aratas in the head-to-head. After both acts had performed once more, the time had come for Graham to announce the winner. A delighted Libera walked away with the £10,000 prize.