Indian officials argued that India's refusal to sign the treaty stemmed from its fundamentally discriminatory character; the treaty places restrictions on the non-nuclear weapons states but does little to curb the modernisation and expansion of the nuclear arsenals of the nuclear weapons states.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/2029293.stm
Survivors of the atomic bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki have appealed to Pakistan and India to step back from the brink of war.  The survivors, or hibakusha as they are known in Japan, are fearful that the leaders of the two nuclear armed states do not fully comprehend the horror of a nuclear attack and the destruction it would inflict.  Survivors have told the BBC they are planning to hand a letter of protest to the Indian and Pakistani embassies in Tokyo.  India and Pakistan have been on a war footing since an attack on the Indian parliament in December which Delhi blames on Pakistan-based militants.  The two sides have massed one million troops on their disputed border and there are fears any conflict could escalate into a nuclear exchange.  Minoru Yoshikane, aged 75, was just three kilometres (two miles) from ground zero in Hiroshima when the bomb struck on 6 August, 1945.  He believes that the devastating effects of the bomb, which killed more than 140,000 people, have faded over the intervening years.  "They (world leaders) don't know the actual suffering caused by atomic bombing," he said.  "I saw hundreds of people coming out from the centre of the city, they looked like ghosts - their clothes were in shreds, their skin melted down.  "We have to tell India and Pakistan that if they start this kind of war they will be making their world like hell," he warned.  India has said that it will not use its nuclear weapons first, but Pakistan has made no such promise and as the tensions between the two countries show no sign of abating, the hibakusha are looking on aghast.  Hiroshima Mayor Tadatoshi Akiba also highlighted the human cost of atomic showdown in a message to the Indian and Pakistani leaders on Saturday.  "The suffering inflicted on innocent civilians in both countries would be immense, devastating environmental destruction would ensue, and humanity would be thrust closer to the brink of self-obliteration," Mr Akiba wrote.  Scientists estimate the warheads being readied by India and Pakistan are roughly the same size as the bomb which destroyed Hiroshima - but given the densely packed population in Indian and Pakistani cities the human toll could be even worse.  Dr M V Ramana, a researcher at Princeton University's programme on Science and Global security told the BBC World Service that one bomb hitting a city such as Bombay could kill as many as a 850,000.  "The loss of life would be horrific. If a 15 kiloton explosion, the kind that happened over Hiroshima, were to happen on top of Bombay there would be 150,000 to 850,000 people dying within the first few weeks," he said.  Dr Ramana also warned that far from driving other states away from nuclear weaponry the horrific destruction might spur new states into seeking nuclear weapons.  "Fortunately the world has seen no use of nuclear weapons since 1945 and that taboo would be breached... and it could trigger other countries to try to start nuclear weapons programmes of their own," he said.