It was ended six months after introduction.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/3135411.stm
Our regular look at some of the faces which have made the news this week. Above are Sir Clive Sinclair, with Bishop Gene Robinson, Jennifer Lopez, Don Estelle, and Tom Kelly  Eighteen years after his C5 electric tricycle failed to revolutionise the transport habits of city dwellers, Sir Clive Sinclair is at it again. He has announced that he is working on a new form of personal transporter. Why are we sceptical?  It doesn't take a genius to work out that Sir Clive Sinclair has an image problem, despite the fact that the man himself is, officially, a genius. He has an IQ of 159 and used to chair the egg-heads' club, Mensa.  For Sir Clive, now 63, encapsulates the fortunes of British industry over recent decades; high marks for innovation, low marks for marketing.  He is the brilliant lateral thinker whose inventions, at one time, dominated the UK home-computer market. He is the inventor who took on the might of the Japanese and American electronics industry and failed gloriously.  His acumen for invention began in his teens. Before taking his A levels, he designed his first micro-radio. At 17, he became a technical journalist on Practical Wireless and, within a year, had become its editor.  By the early 1970s, he had invented the world's smallest amplifier, the Executive pocket calculator and the digital Black Watch. He secured his personal fortune with the first low-priced home computers, the Sinclair ZX80, ZX81 and the Spectrum.  In 1983, he became Young Businessman of the Year and received his knighthood.  But young British companies like Sinclair and Acorn lacked the entrepreneurial skills of the Americans and Japanese. What's more, the IBM computer system became the dominant format and embracing it ran counter to the British innovation culture.  Only Amstrad took it on. Only Amstrad survived.  The C5 was not only a product failure, but a public relations disaster. The electric tricycle was deemed unsafe by the Automobile Association because it was too low; lorries couldn't see it.  So his next inventions, namely a battery-powered bicycle engine called a Zeta and the more advanced Zike, met existing market resistance.  Production of the Zike ceased after six months.  It was a risky adventure that, once again, just failed to come off.  Risks were not confined to his working life, it seems. His wife discovered he was playing away and divorced him on the grounds of adultery in 1985.  His name subsequently became linked with a host of attractive women less than half his age. In 1989, Mensa member, Bernadette Tynan, 21, accepted his marriage proposal but later changed her mind.  He was soon dating a string of young women, and raised eyebrows when he moved a 21 year-old lapdancer, Angie Bowness, into his luxury penthouse apartment. When they parted, she sold her story to the tabloids.  Sir Clive is keeping his cards very close to his chest over his new invention. The suggestions are that it might be some kind of enhanced pedestrian transport.  "I think Sir Clive Sinclair is certainly capable of pulling one more rabbit out of the hat," says broadcaster and gadget buff, Adam Hart-Davis.  "But bike technology, if that is what the new invention is, is not easy to break into. He could be barking up the wrong pavement." Or some might say, just barking.