This was their first time playing in a World Cup, a consequence of the previous apartheid.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_union/rugby_world_cup/history/2960348.stm
The 1995 tournament was seen as the dawning of a new era.  Post-apartheid South Africa had been welcomed back into the international sporting frame and the World Cup was their first chance to unite a nation and prove things had changed.  Springbok captain Francois Pienaar and manager Morne du Plessis tried to foster feelings of the "rainbow nation".  And their policy had the desired effect of not just uniting spectators off the field, but also the players on it.  Few moments in sporting history have been more poignant than when Pienaar received the William Webb Ellis Trophy from new South African President Nelson Mandela, bedecked in his own Springbok jersey.  There were certain sceptics who criticised the fact that only one black player had a part to play in the tournament.  But Chester Williams managed to obliterate opposition defences, clearly winning his place in his own right rather than as a publicity stunt by South African rugby authorities.  South Africa had done everything right but this was billed as New Zealand's time to win once more.  The All Blacks had demolished everyone in their path except when it came to the final.  But the Springboks decided to shut up shop defensively as did their rivals, and mark the potent Jonah Lomu out of the game.  Neither side could find a way through for the duration of the game in front of 63,000 spectators.  The All Blacks went into the second half just 9-6 down and levelled courtesy of an Andrew Mehrtens penalty.  Mehrtens nearly became a national saviour in the dying moments of regulation time, but his drop goal attempt veered wide.  The match went into extra-time, with each side notching up an early penalty each.  But the game finally headed South Africa's way in the second half of extra-time when Joel Stransky received the ball and slotted over the winning drop goal with his right boot.