It had been seven years since his last win.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/golf/8019838.stm
FINAL LEADERBOARD (US unless stated):  -14 J Kelly -13 R Sabbatini (SA), C Wi (Kor), C Howell III -12 D Toms, S Marino   Selected others: -8 I Poulter (Eng) -7 G Owen (Eng), B Davis (Eng)-6 M Laird (Sco) Kelly recovered from a nervy start in blustery conditions to win Jerry Kelly took advantage of a late collapse from Charles Howell to win the Zurich Classic in New Orleans, his first US Tour victory for seven years. Kelly was three strokes clear going into the final round but fell three behind after 10 holes. However, birdies at the 11th and 14th and four closing pars was just enough to give the 42-year-old the title. Howell started with six birdies in his first 11 holes but bogeyed the 15th and 17th to slip down to joint second. South African Rory Sabbatini, who finished alongside Howell on 13 under, one stroke behind Kelly, also had chances over his closing holes. He had been lying two behind the leaders at the 16th but his chip for eagle - and a share of the lead - lipped out before missing a three-foot birdie attempt and bogeying the 18th. Sabbatini gave himself another eagle chance on the last, but had to settle for birdie while Korean Charlie Wi also took a share of second after missing a 13-foot birdie putt on the final hole. It was Kelly's 200th US Tour event since his last success - and only last week, troubled by a dislocated rib and flu, he walked off the course on the second day of the Vertizon Heritage after taking a 10 on one hole. Ian Poulter finished as Europe's leading golfer in a tie for 13th on eight under, but Brian Davis, Greg Owen and Scot Martin Laird were all disappointed to finish just behind him - and not just because they closed with bogey sixes. Davis had climbed to joint second with four birdies in the first eight holes, but bogeyed three of the next seven. Laird played the last eight in four over after standing joint sixth and Owen, having also covered the first 11 in three under, also dropped back.     