Guðni almost scored against former club Tottenham in a game in March 2003 but his header rebounded back off the post.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/2851297.stm
Bolton climbed out of the relegation zone after beating Spurs thanks to a priceless injury time-penalty from Jay-Jay Okocha.  In the second minute of injury time, Gary Doherty brought down Youri Djorkaeff and Okocha calmly sidefooted his spot-kick past Kasey Keller.  The result pushed Bolton two points clear of West Ham and just two behind Leeds, with seven games to play.  The match was never a classic, but always held the attention, as Bolton surged forward at every opportunity in their chase for Premiership survival.  After an even first half, Bolton dominated the proceedings, but a combination of the woodwork and some superlative goalkeeping from Keller seemed to have earned Spurs at least a share of the points.  The last 20 minutes saw Bolton hit the post, Keller produce two wonderful saves, and Okocha's penalty.  On 71 minutes Gudni Bergsson's header rebounded off the post and two minutes later Keller athletically tipped over the bar from Djorkaeff's dipping shot.  Keller was to produce an even better reaction save, when he flung himself to his right to palm Pierre-Yves Andre's fierce shot round the post.  Bolton had won just three home games this season before this victory and the hurried nature of much of their finishing highlighted why Sam Allardyce's side have struggled at the Reebok Stadium this season.  After Djorkaeff's pass sent Okocha into the clear the Nigerian ambitiously shot when a pass inside to Henrik Pedersen looked the better option.  On a couple of occasions Frandsen also burst forward from midfield but his final pass was wayward.  Bernard Mendy also rushed his shot from a useful position, while a Pedersen shot from the edge of the area did not carry enough power to trouble Keller.  Spurs' finishing was equally nervy, notably when Robbie Keane scuffed his volley after he had collected the ball from a Jussi Jaaskelainen punch.  Spurs' best chance of the game came from a corner 10 minutes before the interval.  Darren Anderton picked out Teddy Sheringham, whose header was deflected into the path of Goran Bunjevcevic, but his shot was cleared off the line by Frandsen.  After the restart Bolton looked a different side as they gradually took control of the game with some well-worked interchanges of play.  No more so than when Djorkaeff's exquisite reverse pass released Mendy, whose volley was saved by Keller who had come quickly off his line.