However, he made just one appearance all campaign, coming on as a late substitute on the last day of the season against Fulham.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/4957456.stm
With Wednesday's Uefa Cup final in mind, Boro fielded a virtual youth team but McClaren's protégés did enough to suggest the club's future looks bright.  Heidar Helguson scored the winner on 84 minutes, slotting home a penalty after being brought down by David Wheater.  Boro, who were playing their fifth game in 11 days and 63rd of the season, finished two places behind the London club in the Premiership standings in 14th.  Fulham came out of the traps quickest and Collins John should have scored on seven minutes but headed the ball into the side netting from Liam Rosenior's cross.  Graham had Boro's first chance two minutes later but mis-kicked from James Morrison's neat centre.  Shortly after, Steed Malbranque and Michael Brown had shots blocked at the other end before the tricky Johnson found some space and sliced a shot wide for the visitors.  Fulham left-back Wayne Bridge then put John in with a beautifully-judged pass, but the Dutchman could only poke his shot wide.  On 30 minutes, Moritz Volz skinned Johnson and crossed for Brian McBride, but the American's fine header was saved by Boro keeper Ross Turnbull.  And McBride had another header blocked by Jason Kennedy shortly before half-time as Fulham began to get the better of their inexperienced opponents.  McBride had a penalty shout turned down after the restart when it appeared Andrew Davies might have dragged him down.  Soon after, Graham had an effort disallowed at the other end after the young striker launched himself at the ball and made contact with his hand.  It appeared to be accidental, and when referee Mark Halsey brandished a yellow card, Graham looked like death on two legs.  However, realising the show must go on, Graham brushed himself down and had Boro's next chance, a sharp shot that stung Niemi's hands.  Helguson replaced John on 56 minutes and was brought down by a clumsy Wheater challenge after taking a through-ball on his chest and bearing down on goal.  Helguson duly stepped up and coolly slotted the ball past Turnbull in the Boro goal.  The 39-year-old Colin Cooper came on for possibly his last Boro game five minutes from time. Otherwise, this was very much a day for football's future.