Lee was expelled from KMT on 21 September 2001.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/1556562.stm
Former Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui has been expelled by the Kuomintang (KMT) Party which he led for more than 12 years.  The party's disciplinary committee said Mr Lee had maliciously harmed the party by campaigning for a rival political grouping.  Mr Lee has accused his former colleagues of getting too close to mainland China.  1988 - Lee Teng-hui becomes first native President of Taiwan and KMT leader  Though he stood down as president last year, Lee Teng-hui remains one of Taiwan's most influential political figures. His expulsion from the KMT is likely to deepen already bitter political divisions on the island.  Mr Lee introduced democracy to Taiwan after decades of one party rule; he was also the first native Taiwanese to lead the KMT - which ruled mainland China until losing a civil war to the communists in 1949.  His background played a key role in winning local support for a party which many Taiwanese had regarded as an alien organisation.  Yet many KMT traditionalists accused Mr Lee of abandoning the party's goal of seeking reunification with the mainland. Some left the party, splitting its vote in presidential elections last year, when Mr Lee retired.  This led to the KMT losing power in Taiwan after half a century - and many party loyalists blamed Lee Teng-hui.  But his personal popularity made the KMT reluctant to expel him.  In recent months though he has campaigned openly for a new political grouping - the Taiwan Solidarity Union - ahead of parliamentary elections in December. He has also accused the KMT's new leaders of betraying Taiwan by getting too close to China.  Analysts say his expulsion could lead some KMT members to quit the party in sympathy. But it may also encourage supporters of closer ties with China to renew their links with the party.  This could lead to a re-division of Taiwanese politics into two clear blocs:  Some fear this could only deepen ethnic divisions between native Taiwanese (who have been on the island for generations), and those who came over from the mainland with the KMT in the 1940s.