And we ask that the members of Westboro Baptist Church refrain from stirring up any more homophobic hatred in the UK or elsewhere.
www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/legacy/ni/2009/02/british_christians_challenge_h_1.html
Six UK Christian churches and organisations have issued a joint statement repudiating the actions of Westboro Baptist Church, the Kansas base for the "God hates fags" movement. The Home Secretary has excluded Pastor Fred Phelps, the church's leader from the UK, following reports that the church planned to picket a performance of The Laramie Project in Basingstoke.  In their joint statement, the organisations, which include the Methodist, Baptist, United Reformed churches and the Evangelical Alliance, say: "We do not share their hatred of lesbian and gay people. We believe that God loves all, irrespective of sexual orientation, and we unreservedly stand against their message of hate toward those communities. Neither the style nor substance of their preaching expresses the historic, orthodox Christian faith. And we ask that the members of Westboro Baptist Church refrain from stirring up any more homophobic hatred in the UK or elsewhere."  This is a strong statement that will be welcomed by human rights campaigners and gay groups. These churches and evangelical organisations have taken a decision to unreservedly condemn the "homophobia" of Westboro Baptist Church as unbiblical and un-Christian.  But their statement has, itself, now raised some controversy amongst other Christian groups. While welcoming the statement, Jonathan Bartley, pictured, co-director of the religion and society thinktank Ekklesia and a regular contributor to Sunday Sequence, has challenged those who signed this statement to examine their own conscience in respect of theological homophobia. "It is relatively easy to issue statements against extremists, distance oneself, and condemn them. It is more challenging, and uncomfortable, to acknowledge what one might have in common with those we find abhorrent," he writes.  Jonathan Bartley's statement makes reference to the case of Courage UK, whose director, Jeremy Marks, will be my guest on tomorrow's programme. " Among those who have condemned Westboro," he says, "are some who preach rejection of faithful gay relationships, who deny their baptism and Christian ministry, and who refuse their wisdom. Some have attempted to negotiate opt-outs from equalities legislation so they can themselves discriminate against lesbian and gay people in employment and in the provision of goods and services. The Evangelical Alliance in particular removed the Courage Trust from its membership when the Trust made a Christian commitment to affirming lesbian and gay people."  I've already used the term "theological homophobia", but the issue here is how to specify a meaning for that expression. The Westboro Baptist case is without doubt an example of religiously-motivated, theologically-informed hate-speech. But what of those mainstream churches and Christian groups who regard same-sex relationships as unbiblical, sinful and ultimately self-destructive, and who state their case with reference to biblical texts and theological language? They are absolutely opposed to the actions of groups like Westboro, and they are careful to express their views respectfully and without recourse to hate-speech. But they nevertheless regard homosexuality as a sin. In essence, Jonathan Bartley has asked those Christian groups to take a serious look at themselves and reflect on whether they differ from Westboro more in rhetorical style than in theological substance.