If not for his road crew, he also would have drowned.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/2118961.stm
The drummer of Scottish rock band Travis has suffered a suspected spinal injury in a swimming pool accident.  Other members of the band rushed to pull Neil Primrose out of the water after the accident in France.  He was taken to a local hospital in Belfort and the band's management said "early indications" were that he had broken a vertebra.  The management said Primrose struck his head and was rendered unconscious in the accident.  Fellow band and crew members, who had also been relaxing by the pool after a week of European festival appearances, went to his aid and he was taken away by ambulance to hospital where he has been undergoing tests.  The group's management issued a statement which said: "Whilst relaxing in the pool, Travis drummer Neil Primrose struck his head and was knocked unconscious.  "After realising his predicament, other band and crew members dragged Neil from the pool and gave him assistance.  "He was taken by ambulance to the local hospital in Belfort to receive treatment and to undergo tests.  "Early indications suggest that Neil has sustained a fracture on one of his vertebrae and is still in hospital in France undergoing further tests."  Speaking to the Scottish Sun from hospital, Primrose said things cold have been "a lot worse" if he had struck his head a different way.  "We went back to the hotel for a couple of beers and I dived into the pool. It was too shallow and I bumped my head and knocked myself out," he told the newspaper.  "The guys had been watching me but then realised it looked a bit more serious.  "I was floating beneath the surface of the water. They pretty much jumped in and got me out."  The band's management said the accident has forced Travis to cancel its forthcoming concerts.  "We wish to apologise to all our fans for any inconvenience caused but hope you will join us in wishing Neil a full and speedy recovery," said the statement.  Full refunds would be offered for all of the cancelled concerts, apart from Carhaix which is a three-day festival.  The management stressed that David Bowie would still be appearing at Lucca.