Suharto resigned on 21 May 1998.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/events/indonesia/latest_news/97848.stm
He made the announcement in a televised address surrounded by politicians and military leaders. His vice-president, B.J. Habibie, who is seen as a close associate, was immediately sworn in as the new president for the remainder of Suharto's term, which ends in 2003.  Mr Habibie received the backing of the head of the Indonesian armed forces, General Wiranto, straight away. General Wiranto also said that the Indonesian armed forces would safeguard the "former leaders of this country including Mr Suharto."  President Suharto had been under escalating domestic and foreign pressure to step down amid the country's worst political and economic crisis since he came to power in 1966.  "I ask for forgiveness if there were any shortcomings," said the president, who looked grim and tired. "May Indonesia remain victorious."  The resignation announcement was greeted with cheering and singing from thousands of students, who have been occupying the parliament building in Jakarta since Monday in a peaceful protest against Mr Suharto's rule.  But at the same time, few of the demonstrators seem to believe that the occupation of the parliament could now be brought to an end.  Opposition figurehead Amien Rais said he would support the new government if it was clearly made up of "honest people in touch with community feelings".  A list of new ministers is expected on Thursday.  Dr Rais said if presidential elections were called, he would stand himself.  East Timor's Nobel Peace prize winner, Jose Ramos Horta, has appealed to the people of East Timor to respond calmly to the news of President Suharto's resignation.  He called for Indonesia to transform itself into what he called a true democratic country, a place where the army could not dictate the future.  East Timor was invaded by Indonesia in 1975 and later annexed.  The human rights organisation Amnesty International says hundreds of thousands of people have died in East Timor since the occupation began.  The Indonesian information minister, Alwi Dahlan, said planned economic reforms would continue under President Habibie.  "News of his resignation are positive for Indonesia, but the markets will still probably look for clearer leads," said a currency dealer with a European bank in Singapore.  But with the new president so close to Mr Suharto, he is expected to head only a transitional government.