She was awarded an Honorary CBE in 2001.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/1092540.stm
Much-loved comic Spike Milligan, who once called the Prince of Wales a "grovelling little bastard", has been made an honorary knight in the New Year's Honours list.  But Milligan, 82, will not be known as Sir Spike because he is an Irish citizen.  Along with other non-British recipients, he appears in a special Foreign Office list, issued at the same time as the main honours list.  The ex-Goon heads a long list of stars of stage and screen in the showbusiness and arts world who are honoured this year.  Paul Schofield, one of the greatest Shakespearian actors of his generation, is made a Companions of Honour.  Composer Sir Harrison Birtwistle,at the forefront of contemporary music for more than 20 years, is also made a Companion of Honour.  Actor, whose illustrious 30-year career includes such films as Dr Zhivago and Billy Liar, is made a knight, as is playwright, who won an Oscar for Amadeus and penned Equus and The Royal Hunt of the Sun.  The actor who plays Ken Barlow in Coronation Street, William Roache, is made an MBE.  The soap has just celebrated its 40th anniversary. Roache is the only remaining cast member from the first live episode in 1960.  Meanwhile, the voice of Eddie Grundy in BBC Radio 4's drama The Archers, is made an MBE.  Actress Charlotte Rampling, star of films like Georgy Girl, The Night Porter and The Cherry Orchard, is made an OBE in the diplomatic list, as is actor Patrick Stewart, a classical actor but currently best known for his role as Captain Picard in Star Trek; The Next Generation.  Actress Zoe Wanamaker, a US citizen, is made an honorary CBE.  Comedian, who hosts BBC One's The Generation Game, is made an OBE for services to charity, and, of Beadle's About and You've Been Framed, is given an MBE for the same reason.  Veteran actor Joss Ackland, 71, who has starred in such films as Shadowlands and White Mischief, is made a CBE.  Jazz musician, 71, who beat cancer of the throat to continue playing clarinet, is made an MBE.  BBC broadcaster Sue Lawley, who presents Desert Island Discs, is made an OBE, while Annie Nightingale, Radio 1's first female DJ in 1969, is made an MBE.  Theatre impresario Bill Kenwright, who has produced shows including Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat, A Streetcar Named Desire and Blood Brothers, is made a CBE.  Choregrapher Matthew Bourne, whose male Swan Lake won 27 awards, is made an OBE, while the man regarded as the father of modern dance, Richard Alston, is made a CBE.  , one of the world's most prolific novelists, gets a CBE, and cartoonistis made an MBE.  Floella Benjamin, once a presenter of the BBC's Play School and now chairman of Bafta, has been made an OBE for services to broadcasting.  Songwriter Roger Greenaway, who wrote I'd Like To Teach the World To Sing and a host of 60s and 70s hits, is made an OBE, as is children's author Alan Garner.