As well as the league, Jez George also took Cambridge to the quarter-final of the FA Trophy (which was the furthest they had got at the time), but lost 2–1 at home to minnows, Wealdstone.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/13287320.stm
Cambridge United caretaker boss Jez George has accepted the manager's role on a permanent basis.  In a statement chairman Paul Barry said George would remain in charge until "it is in the best interests of the club for a change to take place".  George guided the U's to Blue Square Bet Premier safety after taking over from Martin Ling in February and last week.  Barry has also hinted at wholesale changes in the playing staff.  The U's are actively trying to reduce their budget with midfielder Paul Carden and striker Daryl Clare having been shipped out on loan to Luton and Alfreton respectively.  "We have talked before of the scale of the challenge facing Jez in his new role," said Barry.  "It is unlikely that all the issues will be fully resolved prior to the start of the season and Jez will continue to work through these until we have completely restructured our playing cost base.  "By necessity this will mean that a number of players will leave the club over the summer as Jez implements the board's requirements.  "We expect no further leadership changes until this restructure is completed.  "In the future, if the board and Jez believe that it is in the interests of the club for a change to take place, then Jez will revert to his role as director of football."  The statement goes on to add that a new wage ceiling will be introduced to restrict the amount individual players can earn.  "We note also that there are a number of existing contracts which are currently outside this agreed structure which must now be addressed," Barry continued.  George, who arrived at the Abbey Stadium in 2006 to head up the club's academy, will remain as chief of the youth structure and will continue to be assisted by Nolan Keeley.  The club says they are looking to employ a new youth coach to enable the pair to concentrate on the first team.