Because of this, Connolly has a "deep distrust and dislike of the Catholic church and any other organization that brainwashes people".
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/379935.stm
The opinion poll for the Daily Record newspaper found that 66% of those questioned agreed with the statement: "Many people in Scotland are anti-English."  The findings were published a day after comedian Billy Connolly accused the Scottish National Party of stirring up "new racism" in Scotland.  In an interview with the Sunday Herald newspaper, Glasgow-born Connolly described the new Scottish Parliament as "a joke".  "It's entirely their fault (the SNP), this new racism in Scotland, this anti-Englishness," he said.  Of those surveyed by the Daily Record, 25% disagreed that many people in Scotland were anti-English and the remainder said they were unsure.  Asked whether they believe Scotland has a racist problem, 49% of non-ethnic minority agreed - 44% of ethnic minority respondents said the same thing.  Scottish Opinion questioned 800 people from across Scotland by telephone for the survey.  "I'm an internationalist. It's entirely their fault, this new racism in Scotland, this anti-Englishness.  "It was a music hall joke before - you know, like Yorkshire v Lancashire or Glasgow v Edinburgh. But there's a viciousness to it now that I really loathe and it is their fault entirely."  Asked if he endorsed the changes taking place in Scottish political life, he added: "There's absolutely no good coming out of the changes now.  "There are a lot of people talking about things like self-determination, but they are abstracts.  "What you've actually got is another layer of government and they've sneaked in proportional representation, a third of whom you didn't vote for. It's an enormous joke."  An SNP spokesman rejected the comedian's comments, saying they were "absurd" and "off-the-wall".  He said: "Billy Connolly rivals Tories like Michael Forsyth in his antagonism to Scottish self-government.  "He calls the Scottish Parliament and proportional representation 'an enormous joke'.  "He is undoubtedly a fine comedian but when it comes to politics, I'm afraid the joke's on him.  "Billy Connolly says in the interview that he is a stranger to Glasgow nowadays.  "On the basis of these off-the-wall remarks, he is also a stranger to the views of the vast majority of Scots who are enthusiastic about the parliament and will dismiss his absurd remarks about the SNP for the nonsense they are."