As Dando reached her front door at about 11:32, she was shot once in the head.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/328804.stm
She was taken to nearby Charing Cross Hospital, where she was confirmed dead on arrival at 1303 BST (1203 GMT).  Her post mortem examination later revealed that she had received a single gunshot wound to the head.  There had been early reports that she suffered multiple stab wounds, but one neighbour in Gowan Avenue said he had heard a gunshot.  Ms Dando's fiancé, gynaecologist Alan Farthing, said: ''I am totally devastated and unable to comprehend what has happened. Jill was respected for her professional ability, admired by all who met her and adored by anyone who got to know her.''  Police, who have launched a murder inquiry, later cordoned off the footpath next to the River Thames from Putney Bridge.  There were unconfirmed reports that a man jumped off the bridge, or was stopped as he tried to jump.  He was described as white, tall, in his late 30s or early 40s, with dark hair, clean-shaven and wearing a green Barbour jacket.  Richard Hughes, 32, who lives next door to Miss Dando, said: "I heard her scream, it was a distinctive scream, she sounded quite surprised.  "I went to the door and saw her lying on the doorstep, she was unconscious and covered in blood. I was obviously shocked. I took a look at her and she wasn't breathing."  Jill Dando was hugely popular among BBC viewers, her bright presenting style proving a hit in a variety of programmes.  BBC News Online received more than 2,000 tributes from users within three hours of posting a page on the Internet.  Her co-presenter on Crimewatch UK, Nick Ross, said: "The shock is palpable. I can't believe we are talking about her in the past tense."  Ms Dando and Nick Ross presented last week's show, which featured unsolved crimes including the Brixton nail bomb blast.  Scotland Yard said there was no evidence that linked the murder with the programme.  Last year there were reports that Ms Dando had been stalked by a fan, who had subjected her to frightening phone calls and letters.  Tony Hall, chief executive of BBC News, said: "I think we have to think carefully about people in the public eye and what protection if any they should have."  "But we are conscious not just of our own great sorrow, but of all of those viewers who learned to love her."  But after seven years touring the world's tourist spots for the Holiday programme, Ms Dando was due to scale down her on-screen work and wed Mr Farthing.