Failure to comply with such a notice within six months usually leads to closure; however, Summerhill chose to contest the notice in court.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/683649.stm
An appeals tribunal has begun a hearing which could decide the fate of Summerhill, the progressive independent school in Suffolk where pupils choose whether to attend lessons.  Students, teachers, the cook, the cleaning staff, some parents and ex-students were travelling to London in a coach to attend the hearing, which is expected to last more than a week.  Last year, a critical report by the Office for Standards in Education (Ofsted), prompted the Education Secretary, David Blunkett, to file a formal "notice of complaint" against the school demanding that it make changes to remedy six specific issues.  Summerhill has appealed against three of the six demands - hence the sitting of the independent schools tribunal, chaired by a retired circuit court judge.  The tribunal could quash the notice, or - if it is upheld - strike the school immediately from the register of independent schools.  Alternatively, it could give the school time to comply with the requirements.  The school's lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson QC, said in his opening remarks that closing it would be an "act of educational vandalism".  He said the freedom exercised by the pupils whether or not to go into the classroom was not negotiable.  "It's freedom or nothing. If it's not freedom, it isn't Summerhill," he told the tribunal.  "If you insist that it is negotiable, as Ofsted wants to make it, that will be the end of Summerhill.  "It would have to close and that would be an act of educational vandalism."  The school was founded by the educational philosopher A S Neill in 1921 as what he called a "free" school. His daughter, Zoe Readhead, is the present headteacher.  Counsel for the education secretary, Alison Foster, said he was not trying to close the school.  "It is not his intention to enter into an ideological battle - this appeal does not concern a battle of ideologies," she said.  "He is not intent on enforcing compulsory lessons on Summerhill pupils nor on compelling the abandonment of the general philosophy of education propounded by A S Neill."  But, she added, the minister was entitled to regard a particular form of education as being too narrow.  Ofsted's permanent inspections staff (HMI) say they have had "significant concerns" about Summerhill for a number of years.  The Department for Education issued an earlier notice of complaint after an inspection in 1990, but this was lifted when it appeared the school intended to take action on the weaknesses identified.  Ofsted says subsequent monitoring indicated that the planned actions were not generally being implemented, leading to another full inspection.  "Since then the pattern has been repeated of strongly critical inspection findings being followed by promising plans of action that were only very partially, if at all, implemented by the school," it says.  After the last visit, a year ago, the inspectors said: "This report cannot and does not pass judgement on the unique philosophy on which Summerhill is founded. It focuses upon the issue of whether the quality of the education provided is effective in practice."  They concluded: "Summerhill is not providing an adequate education for its pupils.  "Whether the pupils make sufficient progress and achieve the standards of which they are capable is left to each child's inclination. As a result, those willing to work achieve satisfactory or even good standards, while the rest are allowed to drift and fall behind."