The stated aim was "to gauge audiences' appetite for music downloads and their preferred content, and will inform the development of the BBC strategy for audio downloads and on demand content".
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2005/05_may/27/beethoven.shtml
Listeners will be able to download live performances of Beethoven's nine symphonies from next month, as part of BBC Radio 3's Beethoven Experience.  All Beethoven symphonies, performed by the BBC Philharmonic in Manchester and conducted by Gianandrea Noseda, will be broadcast during the BBC's Beethoven season and then made available as mp3 files at bbc.co.uk/radio3.  The one-off project aims to gauge audiences' appetite for music downloads and their preferred content, and will inform the development of the BBC strategy for audio downloads and on demand content.  "We hope this experiment brings more people into contact with Beethoven's work and encourages them to explore it further themselves," said Roger Wright, Controller, Radio 3.  "Radio 3 is delighted to offer innovative ways of experiencing classical music."  Simon Nelson, Controller of BBC Radio and Music Interactive, explained: "Downloading technologies can transform the value we deliver to listeners and make our programmes more accessible for both new and existing audiences."  The downloads will be available for one week after broadcast, with dates as follows:  Symphonies 1 to 5 (broadcast in Afternoon Performance, 2.00-3.40pm): Nos. 1 and 3 on Monday 6 June and nos. 2, 4 and 5 on Tuesday 7 June;  Then symphonies 6 to 9: no.6 on Monday 27 June, no. 7 on Tuesday 28 June, no. 8 on Wednesday 29 June and no. 9 on Thursday 30 June.  Listeners should visit bbc.co.uk/radio3 for more details.  The Beethoven season is the BBC's largest ever focus on a single creative artist, with output across BBC Radio, Television and Interactive.  In an unprecedented event, Radio 3 will clear its schedule to broadcast The Beethoven Experience (5-10 June) - the complete works of Beethoven in one week - and BBC Television will mount its biggest retrospective devoted to the works of one composer, taking viewers on a journey through Beethoven's dramatic life and greatest music.