As part of this appeal, the Blue Peter presenters held the world's biggest bring and buy sale on 18 February 2009, which was attended by several celebrities as well as regular people.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2009/02_february/05/bringbuy.shtml
CBBC's Blue Peter continues to empower children to make a positive difference by hosting the world's biggest bring and buy sale on Wednesday 18 February 2009 with one goal – to put two million meals on plates for children around the world.  The Mission Nutrition Appeal is the 47th appeal run by Blue Peter.  The BBC One show will broadcast live at 4.35pm from Lakeside shopping centre in Thurrock, joined by stars such as Ben Walker (The Golden Compass), Matt Willis (I'm A Celebrity… winner) and Connie Fisher (How Do You Solve A Problem Like Maria? winner).  High street stores, celebrities and families from all over England will be selling their wares for Blue Peter's Mission Nutrition Appeal.  All visitors will have the chance to buy exclusive items donated by a host of stars including signed Richard Hammond (Top Gear) Blast Lab books and Nick Park (Wallace and Gromit) signed standees from A Matter Of Loaf And Death.  All proceeds will go to help achieve the Mission Nutrition Appeal's aim of putting two million meals on plates for children around the world.  Matt Willis says: "I'm so excited to be taking part in this amazing event! I'm hoping to pick up a signed Harry Hill Joke Book. Join my friends at Blue Peter on the 18th and together we can help raise money to help children around the world eat and grow better food!"  As well all the shoppers that go to Lakeside, and all the local schools, clubs and community groups coming down to take part, Blue Peter is also calling for children in all parts of the country to hold their own local sales on 18 February.  Blue Peter presenter Helen Skelton says: "Help us make this the biggest bring and buy sale ever! If you can't join us on the 18th, why not hold a sale in your area? We'd love to hear about it. Go to the Mission Nutrition website, ask an adult to fill in the details and we'll try and mention it on the show."  For the Mission Nutrition Appeal, Blue Peter has partnered with three charities: ContinYou; the Federation of City Farms and Community Gardens; and Save the Children.  Through Mission Nutrition, Blue Peter will help put meals on plates for children in the UK, as well as in Bangladesh, Colombia and South Africa.  All money raised by families around the UK will:  Items that have been donated so far include:  Blue Peter is the longest-running children's show in the world. It celebrated its 50th birthday on 16 October 2008.  The 2006/7 appeal – the Shoe Biz Appeal – recycled shoes to help children orphaned by AIDS in Malawi, and helped 40,000 children.  The most recent appeal for young carers, in association with Barnados, saw Blue Peter viewers donate £753,000 worth of CDs (the full value of which will be realised once they are all sold) to support young carers across the UK. The appeal launched on 4 November 2008.  Further information for schools and children is available at www.missionnutrition.org.uk.