On 29 November his resignation as head coach was announced, with Robinson blaming his lack of support from the RFU.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_union/english/6185090.stm
The 42-year-old, who succeeded Sir Clive Woodward in October 2004, lost 13 of his 22 games in the job.  After three days of talks, the Rugby Football Union announced Robinson was standing down as coach on Wednesday.  But in a statement, Robinson revealed he had been reluctant to go and insisted he still had the backing of his coaching team and players.  "I was confident that I would coach the England team through to a successful World Cup in 2007, notwithstanding the setbacks that we have had through the autumn," he said.  "It is my understanding that I had, and still have, the support of the England players and the England management team.  "In the last 48 hours, I have been advised by senior colleagues that those who have governance over me - the RFU management board - do not, and will not, continue to support me as England head coach.  "For six years I have been proud to work with some outstanding people in the England team management and in the England squad.  "They all understand the responsibility, sacrifice and hard work that it takes for England to win.  "I would like to thank each of them for their support and professionalism throughout."  Robinson also added that the set-up of the game in England needed to change if the national side was to flourish again.  "I leave very much hoping that... the professional game in this country admits that the current structure and system for developing elite rugby players and performance in the international arena is not working," he said.  "If that is so then my successor may have a sensible platform from which to meet everyone's expectations for England success."  RFU elite director Rob Andrew said the decision to axe Robinson was "made with a great deal of regret".  "Andy has made a significant contribution to England during the six years he has been involved with the side," he said.  "Andy played a significant part in England's Grand Slam, unbeaten tour to Australia and New Zealand and RWC success in 2003.  "He also recorded excellent wins against Australia, South Africa and Wales during his tenure as head coach and was always totally committed to the role.  "The RFU will always be grateful for his contribution to the England cause.  "Unfortunately, with the exception of the win against South Africa on 18 November, England's recent results have not gone the way that Andy, the players, supporters and the RFU would have wished for."  Under Robinson, England have slipped to seventh in the International Rugby Board rankings, finished fourth in successive Six Nations championships and damaged their chances of retaining their world crown.  They have also lost eight of their last nine matches, one of the worst runs in the country's history.  The latest defeat came on Saturday, when the England players were booed off the Twickenham pitch following a 25-14 loss to an under-strength South Africa side.  With less than 10 months to the start of the next World Cup in France, the focus will now swiftly turn to Robinson's successor.  World Cup-winning captain Martin Johnson, former South Africa coach Nick Mallett, Harlequins coach Dean Richards and former Wasps and Ireland coach Warren Gatland have all been linked with the post.  So have Andrew and England attack coach Brian Ashton  Andrew later ruled himself out of the running, but agreed with Robinson that the structure of English rugby needs a complete overhaul.  "It's clear from the last two or three years that England have been left behind in the world game," he said.  "Our structures have allowed other countries to leapfrog England in terms of player preparation. That's obvious to everyone.  "We have to find an answer to a problem which has been ongoing throughout the 10 years of professional rugby.  "It's something that needs considering over the next few weeks but we won't be rushed on that."