He was brought on for Given, who had pulled his groin in the 87th minute, and received a tremendous reception from the Newcastle crowd as he came on.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/eng_prem/6185689.stm
Kieron Dyer brilliantly opened the scoring from 20 yards before Scott Parker, in an offside position, crossed for Obafemi Martins to head home.  Danny Murphy was fortunate to reduce the deficit when his mis-hit shot went in via Steven Taylor before Scott Parker struck for Newcastle.  Paul Robinson saved from James Milner, Steven Taylor and Martins but could not stop Parker's close-range header.  Newcastle have now won three of their last four Premiership games and continue to climb the table.  But Tottenham found themselves unable to build upon their first away win of the Premiership this season at Manchester City last weekend.  It was a hugely entertaining game - not least because the volume of defensive mistakes by both sides ensured plenty of attacking opportunities.  The match started disastrously for the visiting team, who found themselves two goals down within seven minutes.  There was much to admire about Dyer's opener after three minutes, which came after a Spurs attack broke down.  A long ball forward from Nolberto Solano found its way to Dyer via a touch from Martins and the midfielder closed in on goal before picking his spot and slotting the ball into the bottom corner with his right foot.  However, Tottenham had a right to feel aggrieved after Martins extended the home team's lead with a close-range header.  Milner's mis-hit cross found its way to Parker in an offside position but the flag stayed down and the midfielder crossed for Martins to head home from six yards.  If Spurs felt aggrieved with Newcastle's second then there was certainly a strong hint of fortune about their goal after 15 minutes.  Tottenham midfielder Murphy, only named in the starting line-up after Jermain Defoe failed a late fitness test, made poor contact with Pascal Chimbonda's cross but the ball skewed off his foot, hit Newcastle's Taylor and crossed the line with Shay Given completely wrong footed.  The goal altered the complexion of the half, with Tottenham suddenly finding some form after a ragged opening.  606 DEBATE: Give your thoughts on this match  It was an equal contest - Dyer shooting wide and Tom Huddlestone mis-hitting from a good position - before Parker scored for Newcastle.  Robinson made three saves in quick succession - a Milner free-kick and two close-range efforts - before the Magpies skipper headed home from inside the six-yard box.  Dimitar Berbatov almost pulled a goal back within seconds of the restart but his strike drifted inches wide of Given's goal.  A poor defensive touch later in the half created an opening for Michael Dawson but the Spurs defender could not keep his shot on target.  Newcastle played with great tenacity and enthusiasm to resist Tottenham's efforts to force their way back into the contest.  Martin Jol brought on Mido alongside Berbatov up front - but a goal seemed more likely to come at the other end of the field and Martins forced a decent save from Robinson.  And there was further cheer for the home fans when goalkeeper Pavel Srnicek came on for Given late in the game.  Given appeared to have picked up an injury and so Srnicek made his first appearance for the club since he rejoined in October - receiving a tremendous reception from the crowd as he came on to the field.  "We have had horrific injuries for two months now but we have grown stronger in that period of time.  "I'm very pleased for the players and for the supporters - it is always nice to send them home with three points and I'm sure they will have great night."  "We are gutted to concede two goals in the first seven minutes - it was a disaster. For the first they hit us on the break but the second was offside.  "We came back into the game but their third goal did not help. We had chances and should have taken more of them."  Newcastle: Given (Srnicek 87), Solano, Taylor, Ramage, Huntington, Dyer (Rossi 77), Butt, Parker, Milner, Emre (Sibierski 66), Martins.  Subs Not Used: Luque, Edgar.