He died on 20 December 2009.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/london/8434333.stm
Peter Moore had been London's town crier for 31 years Tributes have been paid to London's official town crier, who has died after 31 years in the post. Peter Moore, 70, died at his home in Wandsworth, the day after carrying out his last official engagement. He had been due to receive a lifetime achievement award during Friday's New Year's Day parade in the capital, after taking part in every previous parade. The parade's director, describing Mr Moore as "synonymous with London", said the award would be given posthumously. Mr Moore, who had a heart attack during the summer, died suddenly on 20 December, having appeared at the Mayor of Southwark's Christmas reception the previous day. The Southwark mayor, Jeff Hook, said he was shocked by Mr Moore's death and described him as "a really kind and caring person who strived to carry out his official duties when not enjoying the best of health". Mr Moore's former partner Maxine Howard said he had been brought up by Barnardo's in Walsall, in the West Midlands, and "ran away to seek his fortune in London". Peter was synonymous with London and the New Year's Day parade which he loved so much    She said he worked as an actor, appearing in the original stage production of Oliver! in 1960, before being asked to act as a town crier for an event in the 1970s. Ms Howard said: "He had been told that his heart was very weak but he never gave up doing his town crying. "Peter was a trooper, a workaholic. He was a people person. He just adored London." Mr Moore had appeared in every New Year's Day parade since the event began in 1987 and had filmed scenes welcoming people to this week's event, which organisers said would be shown as a tribute. Bob Bone, the parade's executive director, said: "Peter was synonymous with London and the New Year's Day parade which he loved so much. "We were planning to present Peter on 1 January with a lifetime achievement award. Sadly, this will now have to be posthumous. "I know I speak on behalf of all my colleagues and the hundreds of thousands expected on the streets this Friday when I say he really will be sadly missed and is irreplaceable."     