Ten people were killed, including the drivers of both trains, and 82 others were injured.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/in_depth/uk/2001/selby_train_crash/default.stm
   The driver who caused the Selby rail crash is told he is responsible for the "worst driving-related incident in the UK in recent years".   The driver who caused the Selby rail crash is told he is responsible for the "worst driving-related incident in the UK in recent years".     The full transcript of the emergency call made by the motorist accused of causing the Selby rail crash.   The full transcript of the emergency call made by the motorist accused of causing the Selby rail crash.     A minute's silence is observed as rail staff and passengers remember those who died in the Selby train crash.   A minute's silence is observed as rail staff and passengers remember those who died in the Selby train crash.     Police say they have recovered 10 bodies from the Selby train crash, rather than 13 as previously thought.   Police say they have recovered 10 bodies from the Selby train crash, rather than 13 as previously thought.     The rail network in the UK has had a troubled decade, with more than a dozen serious crashes.   The rail network in the UK has had a troubled decade, with more than a dozen serious crashes.     The HSE has pieced together exactly what happened in the 17 seconds it took for the train to come to a halt in the Hatfield derailment   The HSE has pieced together exactly what happened in the 17 seconds it took for the train to come to a halt in the Hatfield derailment     The rail industry failed to learn from instances of trains passing red signals before Paddington rail tragedy, a report reveals.   The rail industry failed to learn from instances of trains passing red signals before Paddington rail tragedy, a report reveals.  Southall: The crash that killed seven    The Southall Rail crash killed seven and left more than 150 injured.   The Southall Rail crash killed seven and left more than 150 injured.