In an August 2009 interview, Preston admitted that he regretted walking off the show and said that he would return to the programme if asked, saying "I'm struggling to think why I would have acted so weird".
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/8187190.stm
Meet the all new Preston Former Ordinary Boys frontman Samuel Preston has admitted that he regrets walking off the Never Mind The Buzzcocks set in 2007 during filming. Preston, 27, stormed off when host Simon Amstell read extracts from his then wife, Big Brother winner Chantelle Houghton's autobiography. "I'm struggling to think why I would have acted so weird," he said. The musician has vowed to return if asked. "I would love to go on there and show them that I'm not a tantrum-y person." Preston, who is currently launching a solo music career, admitted he thought his behaviour had been "terrible" and said he knows returning to the BBC Two show would be hard. "I would be destroyed and they would probably show lots of clips and stuff," he said. The singer, whose Ordinary Boys hit Boys Will Be Boys reached number three in 2006, said former presenter Amstell, is "funny, charming and likeable, which made it all the more embarrassing". I just regret the fact that I was so young and I handled myself badly, especially in interviews    After Preston stormed off, team captain Bill Bailey picked a member of the audience to take his place for the remainder of the recording. "It was just an uncomfortable situation," Preston said. "I wanted the floor to swallow up and eat me, so I did the next best thing and ran away, which is terrible, because I'm really not the sort of person to walk away from confrontation, I'm normally the sort of person to talk it out." Preston married Houghton shortly after meeting on the Channel 4 reality show in 2006 but divorced a year later. Looking back at the beginning of his career, Preston admitted he has made some mistakes. "I just regret the fact that I was so young and I handled myself badly, especially in interviews," he said. With the release of his new single, Dressed To Kill out on 23 August, Preston revealed he is "terrified" at how the public are going to react to him. "The more I think about it, the more I realise how wrong I got it the first time around."     