The boards in most cases continue to exist as voluntary associations of council leaders, funded by the local authorities themselves.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/politics/10341863.stm
Here is the list of funding for projects agreed to by the Labour government since January 2010 which have been axed, or suspended by the Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition government.  The full list of projects agreed since 1 Jan now being cancelled:  Plans aimed to improve the setting of the prehistoric monument, with a new centre located further from the stones, the nearby A344 closed and a new transport system to drop visitors off. Stonehenge £25m centre plans axed  Created in the last weeks of the Labour government to replace regional assemblies, made up of English council leaders with powers over areas like transport and housing. The government says their powers will be given to councils.  The Labour government had extended the engineering firm an £80m loan for a 15,000 tonne press to supply specialist components for the nuclear industry. Company's nuclear parts loan axed  A fund to support job creation for young people who were long-term unemployed which aimed to create 150,000 jobs. Councils, charities and social enterprises were encouraged to bid for a share of the money.  For people on Jobseekers Allowance for six months - it included new short-term training places, recruitment subsidies for firms employing them and more support for people to start up a business.  The scheme aimed to provide work or training places, mainly for 18 to 24-year-olds who had been out of work for six months - some linked to the Future Jobs Fund.  Aimed at giving jobseekers a guaranteed offer of a job, internship, volunteering placement or work experience after two years of being out of work.  Department of Health project to map walking routes and promote them on an interactive website so people can record their fitness.  Aimed at helping people access and benefit from sport - 49 across England. They also make sure local facilities are being put to best use.  New hospital at Wynyard Park, on Teesside to replace existing hospital in Hartlepool and Stockton-on-Tees Hospital plans axed by government  Aimed at encouraging councils to help local businesses grow by rewarding them with a grant that was not ringfenced.  Project to buy and develop a Sheffield site into an industrial park.  There had been plans to widen the road between Cambridge and Huntingdon to six lanes. Proposal to improve A14 suspended  Plan to reverse decline in library usage, to offer flexible opening hours, free internet access and entitlement to membership from birth. Film centre loses government cash  Retail and leisure development in central Sheffield consisting of about 100 new shops and 200 apartments.  Improving road junctions and bus transit schemes on the A2 to accompany major residential housing and commercial office development.  Funding to help university departments translate ideas into commercial ventures.  Initiative to identify, assist and retain 100 of the best research students at UK universities.  Service to help medical researchers understand trends in patient data to support clinical trials and other studies.  Plan for a "community hub" in Leeds including a new swimming pool and learner pool, meeting areas, a community café, activity rooms and consulting rooms.  Proposal to build a state-of-the-art new court building in the centre of Birmingham.  Purchase of hardware for design phase of successor to Trident nuclear missile system - to be reviewed as part of the broader Trident "value for money" review.  Private Finance Initiative (PFI) funded deal for a new generation of search and rescue helicopters to be jointly operated by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport. They will be reviewed "as a matter of urgency".