Harvey eventually rejoined the band under the rebranded name of E-17.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/music/4598937.stm
Singer Brian Harvey, in a critical condition after being crushed by his own car, has struggled to divert attention away from his private life since joining 1990s boy band East 17. The 30-year-old has been in the public eye during a high-profile exit from the band, a nightclub attack, an ill-fated reality show comeback and alleged suicide attempts. Former plumber Harvey joined songwriter Tony Mortimer and rappers Terry Coldwell and John Hendy to form East 17 in 1991. Marketed as streetwise rivals to boy band Take That, the band took its name from its members' local London postal code in Walthamstow. Represented by ex-Bros and Pet Shop Boys manager Tom Watkins, East 17's debut hit House of Love reached number 10 in the UK singles chart in 1992. They would go on to have a further 15 hit singles, including Deep, It's Alright and 1994 chart-topper Stay Another Day, from three studio albums. Harvey's private life began to draw attention in 1993, however, when he was cautioned for possessing cannabis in east London. A high-profile relationship with ex-EastEnders actress Danniella Westbrook ended bitterly in 1995, and his ex-fiancee detailed the break-up to tabloid reporters. Harvey fell out of favour with the band two years later, when he talked about his use of the drug ecstasy in a radio interview. "I've done 12 in one night, you know what I mean - loads of them," Harvey said. Harvey was fined £1,000 for kicking a photographer in 1998 "Really, in the long run, it's a safe pill and it ain't doing you no harm. I don't see the problem." Harvey's comments came a year after 18-year-old Leah Betts died after taking the drug, and radio stations promptly banned East 17's records. Despite issuing an apology, saying his comments had been "completely out of order", Harvey was dropped from the band. Five months later he re-joined East 17 but songwriter Tony Mortimer subsequently quit, ending the band's six years of success. In 1998 Harvey was fined £1,000 after being convicted of kicking a press photographer on the ground outside a London nightclub. Meanwhile Harvey, Coldwell and Hendy attempted to resurrect their music career, recording under the name E-17. Adopting an R&B sound, E-17 had two chart hits but failed to emulate the success of their previous band, splitting in 1999. Harvey launched himself as a solo artist in 2000, telling BBC Radio 1: "I just want to get recognition for what I do really. Instead of being known as a drug-taking, pint-sized, ex-boy band star, you know what I mean? But I think I'm on the up now." Collaborations with dance act Truesteppers and Fugees star Wyclef Jean were only minor chart hits, however. In 2001 he pulled out of a poorly-attended record signing in his home town Walthamstow and announced that he was quitting the music business. Later that year Harvey was left needing plastic surgery after being attacked outside a Nottingham nightclub by someone wielding a machete. His five-year marriage to dancer Tash Carnegie, with whom he has a daughter Teijan, also ended. A year later Harvey was jailed for 56 days for breaching an injunction taken out by his estranged wife. Harvey achieved further media coverage in 2004, when he become a contestant on ITV reality series I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here. He arrived at the show's base in Brisbane, Australia, to hear that his grandmother Betty Nabb - with whom Harvey had lived since he was 10 years old - had died. Harvey agreed to continue with the show before walking out six days later after an argument with fellow contestant Janet Street-Porter. In April this year Harvey entered a clinic for depression but his spokesman has denied reports that he had attempted suicide. He said a worried friend took Harvey to hospital after he took "one or two" sleeping tablets.     