In a commando-style raid, members of his gang attacked the prison with rocket launchers and assault rifles, and they set fire to nearby cars in what is believed to have been intended as a distraction.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/2846401.stm
In scenes reminiscent of a Hollywood film, gangsters used rocket launchers to blow holes in the prison walls, raked guardposts with gunfire and set fire to cars.  The operation successfully freed Italian gangster Antonio Ferrara, who was jailed for bank robbery but was also suspected of murder and a string of other offences.  French Justice Minister Dominique Perben said the methods being used were posing huge problems for the authorities.  "We are faced with a new type of escape that we haven't experienced until now, which are military-type operations... with the use of weapons of war," Mr Perben told Europe-1 radio.  A special panel was being convened by the government on Friday, Mr Perben said, to discuss how to prevent such escapes.  Some have used helicopters to airlift people to freedom.  One key ETA suspect escaped from a high-security prison after trading places with his brother during a visit.  Wednesday's breakout from Fresnes prison outside Paris left flames licking the prison walls.  The escape gang are believed to have set fire to nearby cars to provide a distraction.  Police believe six or seven gunmen were involved in the jailbreak. Some were apparently wearing police uniform.  The attack began at about 0430 local time (0530GMT) on Wednesday morning.  One group used automatic weapons to fire on the guardposts, while other attackers blew open the prison's metal gates and then blasted holes in the interior walls.  No prison guards were hurt in the raid.  The gang made their getaway by car only 15 minutes after the audacious raid began.  Police are investigating possible links between the breakouts of Ferrara and Menconi, who are believed to be gangland allies and had both escaped before.  Ferrara, whose previous escape came during a medical visit, was found last September to have got hold of explosives and detonators while in prison.