He was previously a member of the Agriculture Select Committee.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/wales/north_east/8036310.stm
Martyn Jones will continue his efforts to revive Wrexham Lager Labour Clwyd South MP Martyn Jones will retire at the next general election after 24 years in the House of Commons. Mr Jones, 62, said he always planned to step down in 2011 and it had been an "absolute privilege" to work for his constituency. He told the Daily Post he will try to revive the defunct Wrexham Lager, whose brand he bought for £1. The former microbiologist told the newspaper it would be "great to get Wrexham Lager started again". Mr Jones, a former chairman of the Welsh affairs select committee, said he hoped his announcement would allow a new candidate to fight an election campaign "on their own terms". He entered Parliament in June 1987, and said he had "incredible memories of my time as an MP". "To have seen the fall of the Thatcher era and to have worked with a Labour government that has introduced a human rights act, a national minimum wage and genuine devolved power to Wales," he said. Other proud moments included "fighting for a piece of dormant accounts legislation that could provide up to £20 billion of extra public funds," he said, along with creating a Euro zone day in Clwyd South and chairing the Welsh affairs select committee "to make sure our nation stayed on the top of the political agenda". Perhaps my most enduring memory of this terrific job will be working day in and day out with local people determined to do good work for the local community    He added: "Perhaps my most enduring memory of this terrific job will be working day in and day out with local people determined to do good work for the local community." Born in Wrexham, Mr Jones attended the town's Grove Park Grammar School before going on to study microbiology at Liverpool and Trent Polytechnics. He worked as a microbiologist at the former Wrexham Lager brewery from 1969 until June 1987 when he was elected to the House of Commons as Labour MP for Clwyd South West. His constituency was abolished for the 1997 election, but he was returned to Parliament for the new Clwyd South constituency. He has been a member of the Welsh Affairs Select Committee since 1997, serving as the committee's chair until 2005. In 2007, Mr Jones called for Richard Brunstrom, the chief constable of North Wales Police, to resign after he allowed pictures of a decapitated motorcyclist to be shown at a briefing without the permission of the dead man's family. In March, Mr Jones launched a campaign close to his heart, and called for Wrexham Lager to be re-brewed, 10 years after the last barrel was drunk. When the brewery closed in 2000, they sold off the Wrexham Lager trademark to the MP for for £1. He said he would pass on the name to anyone who could make "a worthy local beer" and put Wrexham Lager "back on the shelves". Mr Jones said: "Of course my work will carry on up until the next general election and anyone with a local problem should still contact my office."     