The director of research and education for Atkins Nutritionals, Collette Heimowitz, has stated that the newer revisions are intended to clarify rather than replace the correct advice in the older books.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/3408931.stm
Original advice suggested that foods such as butter, meat, cheese and eggs could be eaten "liberally".  Now, however, Atkins Nutritionals suggests that intake of saturated fats should be limited to 20% of total calories.  The change of tack will come as a relief to nutrition experts who say that a high-fat diet poses a health risk to some.  In the UK, the website of the Food Standards Agency expressed concern about the makeup of the diet, which heavily restricts certain food groups such as carbohydrates - for example bread and pasta.  High levels of protein intake might also pose a threat to patients with certain medical conditions, it is claimed.  However, millions in the UK have tried the diet, and many say it has helped them lose weight with minimal or no unpleasant side-effects.  They say that the emphasis on fresh food - and bans on high-sugar processed food - has in itself led to healthier eating.  She said: "The media and opponents of Atkins often sensationalise and simplify the diet as the all-the-steak-you-can-eat diet. This has never been true."  A spokesman for the UK arm of the company said: "The whole idea is to reduce your carbohydrate, but it is not all about red meat.  "Not all fats are bad for you, but like anything, they should be taken in moderation."  However, a spokesman for the US arm of the company said that the advice did not represent a change of tack.  She said: "Saturated fat remains a valuable part of the Atkins nutritional approach.  "And there is absolutely no science to support any claims that eating red meat and saturated fat as part of your Atkins programme is anything other then beneficial."  "That means fruit and veg and bread and cereals, and less fats, salt and sugar."  The agency recommends that 11% of calorie intake should come from fats.