The team fell three goals behind Milan but completed a dramatic second-half comeback.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/fa_cup/4756045.stm
The Hammers took an early two-goal lead thanks to Jamie Carragher's own goal and Dean Ashton's close-range strike, before Djibril Cisse pulled one back.  Steven Gerrard lashed home an equaliser after the break before Paul Konchesky's speculative cross put West Ham ahead.  Gerrard's stunning last-minute strike forced extra-time, with Pepe Reina saving from Bobby Zamora, Konchesky and Anton Ferdinand in the shoot-out.  Dietmar Hamann, Gerrard and John Arne Riise all scored from the spot for Liverpool, with only veteran Teddy Sheringham finding the net for West Ham.  The game began with all three major injury doubts on the pitch.  Liverpool were able to select Xabi Alonso while West Ham included Ashton and Matthew Etherington.  Ashton was instrumental as West Ham shocked Liverpool by taking the lead after 21 minutes.  His brilliant pass released Lionel Scaloni, whose cross was unwittingly turned past Reina by the inrushing Carragher at the near post.  Another error, this time by keeper Reina, handed West Ham a two-goal advantage six minutes later.  Etherington's tame shot should have posed no problem for the goalkeeper, but he fumbled the ball at the feet of Ashton, who bundled home from close range.  Liverpool desperately needed to hit back quickly and, after Peter Crouch had an effort ruled out for offside, Cisse threw the favourites a lifeline after 31 minutes.  The French striker met Gerrard's raking pass on the volley to fire a firm finish past Shaka Hislop.  Ashton was a constant source of danger and was only inches off target with an angled drive as Liverpool struggled to contain the striker.  Reina made amends for his earlier mistake with two crucial saves in the space of seconds just after the re-start.  After Etherington's cross had exposed the Liverpool defence, Reina blocked from Yossi Benayoun and Marlon Harewood in quick succession.  Liverpool were level after 54 minutes thanks to their most potent threat, midfielder Gerrard.  The inspirational captain lashed a fierce drive high past Hislop after Alonso's free-kick was headed down by Crouch.  But just as Liverpool seemed to have assumed control, West Ham regained the lead in freakish fashion.  Konchesky's left-wing cross was speculative at best, but it caught the back-pedalling Reina off guard and floated in at the far post.  As the clock ticked around to 90 minutes, Gerrard was Liverpool's saviour again when his first-time drive from fully 35 yards flew past Hislop's right and into the net.  In extra-time, Riise almost scored a goal to rank alongside Gerrard's with a long-range effort that flew just over the angle.  West Ham almost snatched victory with 90 seconds left of added time when Nigel Reo-Coker's deflection was turned on to the post by Reina.  A goalmouth scramble followed before Harewood, who was suffering badly from cramp, shot wide with the goal at his mercy.  It set up a dramatic penalty shoot-out, with Reina making up for a poor performance during normal time with three crucial spot-kick saves.