In terms of points they were nearer to the relegation zone than the playoff zone when he resigned in February 2006 after being put under a lot of pressure by the Forest fans.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/w/west_bromwich_albion/3954309.stm
Megson's dismissal came after he told chairman Jeremy Peace he would quit at the end of his contract in June.  "The club accepts this as a letter of resignation," said a statement by the club, who have installed assistant boss Frank Burrow as caretaker.  "The board believes it's now in the best interests of WBA that Gary Megson no longer remains in charge of team affairs," the statement added.  The club have issued instructions to the Albion squad not to speak to the media over Megson's dismissal.  Megson has had a roller-coaster reign at West Brom, guiding the club to promotion twice but appearing to be constantly on the verge of leaving.  Megson's departure had been on the cards for some time after his public falling-out with chairman Jeremy Peace over summer transfer spending.  While Megson believed he did not have sufficient funds to mount a realistic battle for Premiership survival, Peace expected more after landing the likes of Kanu, Jonathan Greening and £3m striker Robert Earnshaw.  The acrimony was evident with Albion calling the timing of Megson's letter - three days after a dismal 3-0 defeat to Crystal Palace - "extremely unhelpful".  In a official statement Albion said: "This is a crucial period for the club and the board regards the timing and manner of Gary Megson's announcement as extremely unhelpful, particularly following the team's disappointing performance at Crystal Palace on Saturday.  "Nevertheless, the board intends to move swiftly to appoint a new manager who will be fully focused on the job of taking the club forward in the Premiership.  "Until such time, Frank Burrows will act as caretaker manager."  "The board would like to acknowledge Gary Megson's major contribution during his term as manager and wishes him well in the future."  Megson had brought the situation to a head when he revealed: "I won't sign a new contract. I don't intend to talk any more about the decision I have made.  "I have a contract until 30 June and I intend to carry on doing my job until then.  "I will give all the effort and drive that I can to succeed on behalf of the football club.  "If training is not going good enough, if the results don't go the right way, I will continue to be upset about it."  Megson was yet to be offered a new deal by Peace and as the weeks went by his chances of getting one appeared increasingly remote.  The manager had joined the club from Stoke where he spent just four months in charge before the club was taken over by an Icelandic consortium who wanted their own hierarchy.  In his first season Megson rescued Albion from relegation to the old second division and in the following campaign he steered them into the play-offs.  In 2002, Megson was awarded a new three-year contract after Albion famously overhauled Black Country rivals Wolves to clinch their first Premiership place.  But Megson's accomplishments were marred by boardroom disagreements.  He threatened to leave the club after a row with Peace's predecessor Paul Thompson during the promotion season of 2001-02.  And old wounds reopened again this summer when Megson professed himself unhappy with the way the club was moving under Peace.  West Brom, who have won just once this season, sit two points above the relegation zone.  The team's next game is against Chelsea at home on Saturday.