Galvez died after coming into contact with Dimitri De Fauw and then crashing into a track railing.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/7189168.stm
Jason MacIntyre, 34, died while being taken to hospital after the crash near Carrs Corner at 1330 GMT on Tuesday.  He was hoping to make the British Olympic team and his death came a day after he had been given funding to train for the 2010 Commonwealth Games.  Police said a 35-year-old man is to be reported to prosecutors, who will decide if charges should be brought.  In a statement, Mr MacIntyre's family said he was a "wonderful son, husband, brother and father".  It read: "His achievements in the world of cycling were nothing short of wonderful too.  "The family would like to thank everyone who has been in touch personally as well as by phone and email. This has given us great comfort at this terrible time."  It added: "We would also like to thank all the staff at the Belford Hospital in Fort William for their efforts to try and save Jason."  The cyclist lived in Fort William with his wife Caroline and eight-year-old twin girls.  He was born in Lochgilphead but had lived in Fort William since the age of 10.  Despite not starting cycling until he was 18, he progressed in the sport, winning the Tour of the North in Ireland at the age of 23.  In 2002, he was selected to represent Scotland at the Commonwealth Games in Manchester.  Mr MacIntyre won the British 25-mile time trial twice and was the first Scot to win the British Circuit race time trial championship.  He took two years away from racing to help his wife following the premature birth of their daughters.  Mr MacIntyre was airlifted to hospital after the collision but died on his way to hospital on Tuesday afternoon.  The cyclist's website carries a message to visitors under the title The Last Post: "His death marks the untimely end of a brilliant cycling career.  "Jason will be remembered by all who knew him for his determination to excel in cycling, alongside the other passion in his life, his wife and children, who are in our thoughts and prayers."  Cycling legend Graeme Obree said he had great respect for the Lochaber-based cyclist and his death had come as a shock.  Northern Constabulary's road policing section carried out a full investigation at the scene of the accident.