Alcock was jailed for life and must serve at least 21 years.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/leicestershire/3934277.stm
Warren Leblanc, 17, repeatedly stabbed 14-year-old Stefan Pakeerah after luring him to a Leicester park to steal from him on 27 February.  He pleaded guilty to murder at Leicester Crown Court on Wednesday.  Stefan's mother described Leblanc, who confessed to police moments after the assault, as "inherently evil".  Stefan's mother, Giselle, a research nurse, had to leave court when the evidence in the case became too harrowing.  Following the hearing she said her son's killer had mimicked a game called Manhunt, developed by Edinburgh-based Rockstar North, in which the players score points for violent killings.  Mrs Pakeerah said: "I heard some of Warren's friends say that he was obsessed by this game.  "To quote from the website that promotes it, it calls it a psychological experience, not a game, and it encourages brutal killing.  "If he was obsessed by it, it could well be that the boundaries for him became quite hazy."  Mrs Pakeerah, 36, called for violent video games to be banned.  She said: "I can't believe that this sort of material is allowed in a society where anarchy is not that far removed.  "It should not be available and it should not be available to young people."  Leblanc, of Braunstone Frith, Leicester, persuaded his victim to go to nearby Stoke Woods Park, known locally as The Dumps - to meet two girls.  The court heard how he armed himself with a knife and claw hammer to carry out the attack.  He confessed to the killing moments later when he was found covered in blood by two police officers.  Outside court Stefan's father, Patrick, said: "They were playing a game called Manhunt.  "The way Warren committed the murder is how the game is set out - killing people using weapons like hammers and knives.  "There is some connection between the game and what he has done."  Echoing his former partner, the civil servant said: "I don't play these games but if they are influencing kids to go out and kill people then you don't want them on the shelves."  When police discovered Stefan, they found he had sustained horrific and fatal injuries.  The boy had been hit so hard with the hammer he had suffered deep cuts to his head and neck. His head had been fractured in several places.  He had multiple stab wounds, with the knife being plunged so deep that it had caused serious injuries to his kidney and liver.  A spokesman for the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers' Association said: "We sympathise enormously with the family and parents of Stefan Pakeerah.  "However, we reject any suggestion or association between the tragic events and the sale of the video game Manhunt.  "The game in question is classified 18 by the British Board of Film Classification and therefore should not be in the possession of a juvenile.  "Simply being in someone's possession does not and should not lead to the conclusion that a game is responsible for these tragic events."  Judge Michael Stokes QC said Leblanc had carried out "a brutal, cold-blooded murder" and could expect a life sentence.