This did not prevent flooding during the 2005 festival, but allowed the flood water to dissipate within hours.
www.bbc.co.uk/6music/news/20070625_glastochaos.shtml
25 June 07 - Glastonbury revellers had to deal with plenty of drama this weekend, all most want to do is crash into bed. However, many are stuck on site today, hours away from even beginning to get home.     Many punters who bought the combined coach and festival tickets were left stranded after their coaches failed to turn up. Others have swelled the numbers at nearby Castle Cary train station where the Red Cross have been handing out blankets.     Festival-goers who arrived by car have also encountered problems. Will Roberts had been trying to leave the site for more than ten hours and said, "The mud is a major problem and people are spinning in it - but the main problem here is the lack of stewards, there is no queueing system, its just chaos, really chaos..."     Festival organiser Michael Eavis released the following statement, that there was nothing he can do. He knows it's a problem and it's been made worse this year because of the weather. He went on to say that anyone in dire difficulties can go to the welfare centre... but so far only one person has taken up the offer.      Mendip District Council said: "In the next few hours, all the car parks will be clear and those people travelling by train and bus will also have left. There are still a few thousand people on site who are intending to camp until tomorrow."   "We found our car at 8:30am and we have just reached the gate. We have gone about 200 yds in the whole day" - Naomi, driver     Ruth Barnes 25 June 07 - Glastonbury revellers had to deal with plenty of drama this weekend, all most want to do is crash into bed. However, many are stuck on site today, hours away from even beginning to get home.Many punters who bought the combined coach and festival tickets were left stranded after their coaches failed to turn up. Others have swelled the numbers at nearby Castle Cary train station where the Red Cross have been handing out blankets.Festival-goers who arrived by car have also encountered problems. Will Roberts had been trying to leave the site for more than ten hours and said, "The mud is a major problem and people are spinning in it - but the main problem here is the lack of stewards, there is no queueing system, its just chaos, really chaos..."Festival organiser Michael Eavis released the following statement, that there was nothing he can do. He knows it's a problem and it's been made worse this year because of the weather. He went on to say that anyone in dire difficulties can go to the welfare centre... but so far only one person has taken up the offer.Mendip District Council said: "In the next few hours, all the car parks will be clear and those people travelling by train and bus will also have left. There are still a few thousand people on site who are intending to camp until tomorrow."