O'Neil's late handball conceded the penalty for Spurs' winner.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/eng_div_1/1310997.stm
Portsmouth preserved their 13-year stay in the First Division with a comfortable victory over a lethargic Barnsley side.  Lee Bradbury's 15th-minute opener settled the home side's nerves and second-half strikes from Gary O'Neil and Kevin Harper ensured a comfortable win.  With Barnsley showing clear signs of planning for their summer holidays, the home side always looked in control. In fact, Bradbury's goal was a cameo of Portsmouth's season; all a bit messy but with an impressive finish. Bradbury managed to get the ball untangled from beneath his feet as he turned into space and a left-foot shot gave Kevin Miller little chance as it flew into the top left-hand corner. Three minutes after making the breakthrough, Portsmouth should have given themselves a two-goal cushion. Steve Lovell took the ball round Miller and looked to have kept his composure, only to somehow squeeze a shot across the face of an empty goal and wide of the far post. With goal difference potentially playing a part in the relegation calculations, a comfortable Pompey win could have made a big difference. The whiff of further goals was always hung in the south-coast air, but the home side were made to wait until midway through the second half for a second.  Kevin Harper played a crucial role in the build-up and he had the chance to shoot as he drew Miller off his line, but unselfishly flicked the ball into the path of O'Neil, who reacted quickly to slot home. Having created the second, Harper then added the third, lashing home into the top right-hand corner after Lovell's low cross had found him in space at the far post. That signalled a huge air of celebration at Fratton Park, though there was one party pooper in the form of Gary Brady, sent off 12 minutes from time following an apparent off-the-ball incident with Darren Barnard. Even that failed to dampen Pompey's spirits though, as the 10-men kept a comfortable grip on their survival lifeline.