Allardyce denies ever taking, or asking for, a bung.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2006/07_july/18/panorama.shtml
The BBC's flagship television current affairs programme Panorama will return to peak time transmission on BBC ONE.  From January 2007, the multi-award winning Panorama will be shown at 8.30pm on Monday; taking the programme back to a regular weekday slot, which it occupied before its move to Sunday evenings in October 2000.  The switch to Mondays will see Panorama's peak time output increase from 15.5 hours to 28 hours, made up of 48 30-minute episodes and four one-hour specials.  BBC ONE Controller Peter Fincham said: "This is the right move for BBC ONE and I'm really excited about it.  "In its new slot, Panorama will continue to be the flagship of serious, rigorous, trustworthy journalism on the channel, covering a range of topics.  "The programmes will look to engage audiences, producing reports that resonate with viewers.  "Original, investigative journalism from reporters of real calibre will remain a vital ingredient of the programme."  The BBC's Director of News Helen Boaden said: "I am absolutely delighted to see our most important Current Affairs programme return to the heart of the BBC ONE schedule.  "It's a ringing endorsement of the team and the new Editor and demonstrates the BBC's commitment to putting serious, provocative journalism where it matters."  Launched on Wednesday 11 November 1953, Panorama is the longest-running public affairs television programme in the world.  Initially it was broadcast fortnightly but switched to a weekly screening in September 1955, when it started transmitting on Monday evenings at 8.15pm.  During its rich history, the programme has been the winner of many accolades, including recent Royal Television Society successes for Hilary Andersson's report into the Darfur crisis in Sudan, and Sarah Barclay's coverage of premature births.  Other recent achievements include a Bafta for an investigation that examined miscarriages of justice in South Wales, and a special commendation from the UK's Mental Health Media Awards for the programme's investigation into the anti-depressant, Seroxat.  The BBC's Head of Current Affairs George Entwistle said: "I'm thrilled at the move. It's a statement from the BBC - loud and clear - about the depth of its commitment to serious current affairs in peak."  In 1961 Panorama created television history when it broadcast the first screen interview with a member of the royal family, the Duke of Edinburgh.  The programme achieved its highest audience on record when 22.8 million watched Martin Bashir interview Diana, Princess of Wales in November 1995.  Some of the BBC's finest presenters have worked on Panorama, including Richard Dimbleby, who presented the programme from 1955 to 1963, and son, David, who followed his father's footsteps and became a Panorama presenter in 1974.  Other notable Panorama presenters include Jeremy Paxman, Ludovic Kennedy, Michael Buerk, Fiona Bruce and Robin Day, who presented from 1967 to 1972.