The show brought MTV its highest ratings ever in both America and Britain.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/3236480.stm
The Oscar nominee said he "had an immediate emotional response" to the project, saying it would be "a reminder and promise" of American democracy.  The monument has remained closed since the 11 September attacks, and needs funding for added security measures.  Scorsese's documentary will be screened in the US on 15 January.  Charlie's Angels and Mission: Impossible writer James D Buchanan will be honoured by the Writers Guild of America West.  He will receive the Morgan Cox award for his service to the guild at a Beverly Hills ceremony on 3 December.  His other TV series credits include Hawaii Five-O and Homicide.  The guild's Victoria Riskin said Mr Buchanan "has consistently committed himself to improving the lives of writers everywhere".  Celebrity chef Antony Worrall Thompson has announced that he is to insure parts of his body for a total of £1m.  The Ready Steady Cook regular has valued his tongue at £500,000 and his fingers at the same price.  "I can hobble around on wooden legs but I can't do very much in my job without my fingers," he said.  Worral Thompson, the new presenter of Saturday Kitchen, added that any damage to his tongue would "destroy" his career as both chef and TV presenter.  Limp Bizkit singer Fred Durst had to have seven stitches in his face after being struck while playing a concert in New York on Friday, reports say.  The singer was performing the song Eat You Alive when he was hit on the head, MTV news said.  He managed to finish the other two songs in the band's set before being taken to hospital to be treated.  Limp Bizkit are currently on a double-headline trawl through the US with metal band Korn, called the Back to Basics tour.  Rock band Motley Crue is planning a 2004 tour with all four original members, including drummer Tommy Lee.  It will be the first time the US band has reformed since 1999, bassist Nikki Six said on the band's website.  But he added that guitarist Vince Neil "has some resentments that need to be ironed out" before any reunion.  Motley Crue had six UK Top 40 hits including Girls Girls Girls and Without You. Tommy Lee achieved fame as the ex-husband of actress Pamela Anderson.  Some 64 never-before-heard songs by late country singing legend Johnny Cash have been released in a box set.  The five-disc Unearthed set features songs recorded during the last decade, during Cash's partnership with rock and rap producer Rick Rubin.  The set includes a duet with the late Joe Strummer on a Bob Marley cover as well as covers of two Neil Young songs.  Cash, who died in September, also sings songs by Chuck Berry, Dolly Parton, Glen Campbell and Willie Nelson.  Sharon Osbourne is "the most amazing woman of 2003", according to a poll published by a website for women.  The wife and manager of rocker Ozzy Osbourne - and star of hit TV show The Osbournes - took almost a third of the votes cast in the poll by Handbag.com.  Osbourne, who was treated for cancer earlier this year, beat the likes of runner Paula Radcliffe and singer Dido in the poll.  More than 7,000 votes were cast in a range of categories.