The stand was opened in 2004.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/northern_ireland/gaelic_games/7989224.stm
Mickey Harte feels Tyrone v Armagh should be played at Croke Park The Ulster Championship first-round clash between Tyrone and Armagh will be played at Clones on 31 May. The Red Hand County were first out of the hat in the draw but Mickey Harte wanted Croke Park as the venue while the Tyrone board preferred Healy Park. In early February, the Ulster Council indicated that they were unlikely to play the game at Croke Park. The Ulster Council also announced on Tuesday night that Celtic Park will host Derry v Monaghan on 24 May. In a statement, the Ulster Council justified the decision to move the play the Tyrone-Armagh game at Clones on a number of grounds. "The anticipated attendance is significantly in excess of the 18,500 all ticket capacity of Healy Park," said the statement. "St Tiernach's Park, Clones provides an all ticket capacity of 33,000. "There will be up to 10,000 seated family tickets available for this fixture at St Tiernach's Park." If we weren't getting the game in Omagh the only place we should be going is Croke Park    The Ulster statement added that the Tyrone county board will be "compensated for the loss of ground rent that would have been due to Healy Park, Omagh for hosting the game". Speaking on Wednesday afternoon, Mickey Harte reiterated his disappointment at the Ulster Council's decision not to stage the game at Croke Park. "It's no disrespect to Clones," insisted Harte. "If we weren't getting the game in Omagh the only place we should be going is Croke Park. "It's also the fact that Croke Park is available and idle on the day and there for us to avail of. "Ourselves and Armagh haven't played for quite a while in the championship and the last time we did play, we attracted quite an audience. "It's an opportunity missed for all of us to have a great day in Croke Park." In early February, Ulster Council president Tom Daly strongly hinted that the Tyrone-Armagh game would not be played at Croke Park. "It certainly wouldn't be to the forefront of our minds to bring the game to Croke Park," said the Ulster Council president. "Bear in mind that this is a first-round Ulster Championship game. "In the past where Ulster teams have gone to Croke Park, it has been the ultimate stage of the Ulster Championship, the Ulster Final." The Ulster SFC will open on Sunday 17 May with the preliminary round clash between Fermanagh and Down at Brewster Park. Following the Celtic Park and Clones clashes over the next two weekends, Cavan will face either Fermanagh (Breffni Park) or Down (Pairc Esler) on Saturday 6 June. The last quarter-final between Donegal and Antrim will take place in Ballybofey on Sunday 14 June. The Ulster Council did not make any announcements about venues for the semi-finals or final. Sun 17 May : Preliminary Round - Fermanagh v Down at Brewster Park If: Down v Cavan at Pairc Esler, Newry     