The project was completed in 2015.
news.bbc.co.uk/local/taysideandcentralscotland/hi/people_and_places/newsid_9106000/9106322.stm
   Halloween dates back over 2000 years to the Celtic Samhain Festival. Celts believed the spirits of the dead could visit the world of the living in the transition period between the old and new year, October 31. Tayside and Central Scotland have their share of reported sightings of ghosts, ghouls and other-worldly observations. Glamis Castle is allegedly one of the most haunted castles in the UK. Ghostly folklore includes a Grey Lady, a secret chamber and Earl Beardie's ghost. According to tradition, the Grey Lady is said to be the ghost of Janet Douglas, wife of the 6th Lord of Glamis. After her husband's death she re-married. In 1537 she was arrested and tried as a witch. Douglas was burned at the stake in Edinburgh. Glamis Castle is said to be haunted by at least six ghosts The 4th Earl of Crawford, Alexander Lindsay, known as Earl Beardie, is said to have played cards with the Devil after midnight on the Sabbath. After his death it is alleged that Beardie's fate was to play cards with the Devil for evermore in a sealed, secret chamber located in the castle. Other supposed haunted locations in the area include The Tolbooth in Stirling which once served as the town's jail; Stirling Castle with ghosts including a Green Lady, allegedly a maid to Mary Queen of Scots; Airth Castle, described as Scotland's most haunted hotel and Kinneil House with its White Lady, said to be the ghost of Lady Alice who killed herself by leaping from the building in the 17th Century to escape her cruel husband. Ethie Castle near Arbroath allegedly has another Grey Lady spectre and hauntings by the 16th Century Abbot of Arbroath, David Beaton. Lunan Lodge, near Montrose, is said to be Scotland's most haunted bed and breakfast. Halloween at Glamis Castle includes myths, mysteries and spooky tales suitable for all the family. Events take place in the Glamis' Ghost Den on 30 and 31 October. A Halloween Howling, suitable for children, is taking place at Templeton Woods on 29 October. The evening includes spooky stories, a torch-lit trail, lantern and fancy dress competitions. A candlelit ghost walk, Halloween games and entertainers are part of Halloween Party Night at Achray Forest on 30 October. Join the Steam n' Scream at Bo'ness Railway on 30 and 31 October. Wear fancy dress to join the spooky train journey. Halloween events are taking place across the region A spooky puppet show is taking place at Scone Palace on 31 October. The children's show will tell tales from Scotland's haunted history. Samhain will be celebrated at Pictavia in Brechin on 31 October. Step back to the past to discover how the Picts celebrated Halloween. The Scottish Crannog Centre on the banks of Loch Tay has a spooks and sacrifice theme for Halloween. Samhain celebrations on 31 October include a torch-lit procession, the burning of a wicker ram and fire shows. Take a Halloween tour of Stirling Old Town Jail on 29 and 30 October. Watch out for ghosts and witches. Join a Halloween tour at Kinneil House in Bo'ness. The family-friendly tours take place on the afternoon of 31 October. A children's fancy dress competition and Halloween activities will also take place. Enjoy a ghost tour and the Halloween marquee in Pitlochry, part of the town's autumn festival taking place from 22 October to 7 November.     