As a result, Paraguay advanced to the second round on the goals scored tiebreaker, scoring six goals compared to South Africa's five.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/world_cup_2002/1679670.stm
Eight groups for the World Cup Finals will be drawn on Saturday from four "pots" containing the 32 qualifiers.  The first pot contains the eight seeded nations - chosen on "sports, geographic and economic factors".  Each of these seeds will be placed in their own group from Group A through to H.  The second stage involves Pot Two - which contains the 11 unseeded European nations.  Eight of these 11 countries will be pulled from the hat and placed in one of the eight groups.  That means four groups - those headed by France, Italy, Germany and Spain - will have two European teams.  The three remaining European nations from Pot Two will be drawn to play in the four groups which do not already contain two other European teams. Then the five teams in Pot Three will be allocated to a group, and finally the eight teams in Pot Four will be drawn. England and the Republic of Ireland could find themselves in the same group, as they did at the 1990 World Cup. But the chances are against that happening. One of the two countries would have to be in the first eight drawn from Pot Two with the other in the last three. Even then the first out would have to be drawn with a non-European seed.  The fact that Japan and Korea are both seeded means that England or Ireland could find themselves in relatively easy groups. Either could concievably end up with one of the host nations, plus two minnows such as Ecuador and Senegal. Or - just as conceivably - England or Ireland could find themselves in a group with Brazil, Portugal and Cameroon. The structure of the draw was settled on after Fifa took into account political pressure from all angles. Neither of the co-hosts, Japan and South Korea, wanted to be in a less attractive group from the other. They also wanted the most glamorous first-round fixtures to be spread between the two host nations.  Fifa wanted to make sure that no group contained more than two European teams. And football's governing body also bowed to a request from China not to play any of their group games in Japan. The ceremony - which will be presided over by Sepp Blatter - is expected to last 90 minutes. The world's football elite will be entertained during that time by American singer Anastacia and Greek composer Vangelis.