Price insisted that she would "absolutely never" reveal who the attacker was.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/8049852.stm
The celebrity couple recently ran the London Marathon together Katie Price's management company has announced it will no longer represent the former glamour model. Manager Claire Powell, who sometimes appeared in their ITV2 shows, has worked with the star for five years. Powell refused to disclose why Price had been dropped, saying: "We're a very professional company and I don't want to make any comment." The decision comes just three days after the former model and Peter Andre said they were separating. Powell revealed she has worked with Andre for longer than Price, first representing him at the beginning of his singing career in the 90s. When he moved to the US, they parted, but she agreed to take him on again in 2003, and "got him" on ITV1 reality show I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! a year later. It was during the show that the celebrity couple met and went on to form a relationship. We have worked hard to build Katie as a successful individual and brand    In a statement Can Associates said: "We have represented Katie since February 2004. "During that time we have worked hard to build Katie as a successful individual and brand, moving her from a glamour model and repositioning her as the country's foremost female celebrity, with a string of products and successful endorsements. "We wish Katie every success for the future." Powell said Andre was currently in Cyprus. She added that she did not know whether Price had sought representation with anyone else. On Monday Can Associates issued a joint statement on behalf of the couple announcing their separation. Later that day Price issued another statement through a separate PR company. "Pete is the love of my life and my life. We have children together and I am devastated and disappointed by his decision to separate and divorce me, as I married him for life," she said. "This is not what I want and the decision has been taken out of my hands."     