Cheering crowds were reported in the streets of Kampala after the radio broadcast.
news.bbc.co.uk/onthisday/hi/dates/stories/july/7/newsid_2496000/2496095.stm
The Ugandan authorities have denied knowledge of the whereabouts of British-Israeli citizen Dora Bloch.  The 74-year-old grandmother disappeared three days ago, shortly after Israeli commandos rescued hostages detained by Palestinian hijackers at Uganda's Entebbe airport.  Mrs Bloch, a widow, was one of a group of non-Israeli passengers released on 2 July (Friday) from the Air France airbus hijacked in Athens five days earlier.  She was taken to Mulago General Hospital in Kampala because she had a piece of food stuck in her throat.  A British diplomat visited Mrs Bloch in hospital on Sunday evening after the Israeli swoop on Entebbe.  Two plain-clothed guards told the British official that she was about to be discharged to the Imperial Hotel in Kampala.  When he returned to the hospital an hour later with some food he was denied entry.  A statement from the Uganda Ministry of Health claims former doctor, Mrs Bloch, left hospital to re-join the other hostages before the Israeli raid and after that Uganda ceased to have responsibility for her. The UK Minister of State for the Foreign Office Ted Rowlands told the Commons that the Ugandan response was "totally unacceptable" and was a cause for "grave concern". In Kampala, the Ugandan police told the British High Commission yesterday that a search had found nothing. A formal complaint has been made to the Ugandan High Commissioner in London, Fredrick Isingoma. The British High Commissioner to Kampala, Mr James Hennessey, is waiting for a flight at Heathrow after cutting short a holiday in Britain. He hopes to meet President Idi Amin in the next couple of days. Mrs Bloch's son Ilan Hartuv - one of the rescued hostages - has spoken to the world's press from his home in Tel Aviv: "We know that President Amin would not want to harm a sick old woman. We are throwing ourselves on his mercy." Dora Bloch, who lives in Tel Aviv, had been on her way to her youngest son's wedding in New York.