Despite Aberdeen leading 2–1, Everton won 3–2.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/scotland/6584145.stm
The Scottish Professional Footballers' Association has announced its Scottish Premier League team of the year. BBC Sport assesses the outstanding contribution each player has made to their club's season in Scottish football's top-flight and what attracted the votes of the managers. Artur Boruc (Celtic): Arsenal and AC Milan are rumoured to be in the hunt to lure the Polish shot-stopper supreme away from Celtic Park after an almost error-free season that has been pivotal to Celtic's success. Steven Whittaker (Hibernian): The 22-year-old marauding right-back was rewarded for his early-season performances when he was called into the senior Scotland squad for the first time for the game against Ukraine in October. Consistently steady in defence he has provided an extra attacking outlet for Hibs in their run to CIS Cup victory and the Scottish Cup semi-finals. Russell Anderson (Aberdeen): He has been the rock on which Aberdeen have built their, until recent lapses, sustained challenge to Rangers for the second Champions League spot - but a Uefa Cup place is almost sealed. The Dons captain must count himself unfortunate not to have featured more for Scotland in the Euro 2008 qualifiers given his obdurate consistency. Stephen McManus (Celtic): The imposing 24-year-old centre-back has embodied Celtic's never-say-die spirit all season and looks a prime candidate to inherit the club captaincy if/when Neil Lennon departs. Made the step up to full international level with Scotland and looks the part on the bigger stage. Lee Naylor (Celtic): Treated with some suspicion by the Celtic faithful before his £600,000 switch from Wolves, the talented left-back has proved to be one of the best value buys in recent seasons - solid in the tackle, quick, with good awareness and useful going forward to deliver whipped crosses into the box. Celtic fans certainly know who the young Englishman is now. Scott Brown (Hibernian): His skillful, energetic running has been a prominent feature all season, and, when he's on song, Hibs are usually at their fluent best. Would be a huge loss if, as rumoured, he heads west to Ibrox in the summer. Made an impressive debut for Scotland against Georgia and will be an integral part of Alex McLeish's future national squads. Barry Ferguson (Rangers): It would be a shame if the Rangers captain's season is remembered more for his influence off the pitch than on, following his part in Paul Le Guen's downfall. Ferguson has been back to his strutting, box-to-box best for club and country. Shunsuke Nakamura (Celtic): Celtic's talismanic deadball specialist and all-round midfield maestro is a well-deserved SPFA player of the year and it was fitting that yet another of his trademark precision free-kicks should seal the title for Celtic at Rugby Park. His spectacular late strike against Manchester United gave Celtic victory and helped them through to the last 16 of the Champions League for the first time ever. Steven Naismith (Kilmarnock): The 20-year-old, recently voted the young player of the year by his peers, has netted 17 times so far to help the Rugby Park club clinch a top-six place in the SPL and has attracted interest from, among others, Arsenal. Always an exciting prospect, Naismith is now blooming into a fully-fledged talent. Kris Boyd (Rangers): It seems almost ludicrous that, despite another free-scoring season, the enigmatic striker still attracts criticism for his lack of movement outside the opposition box. With the correct nurturing from Walter Smith and Ally McCoist and an increased application on Boyd's part, he could arguably grow into a more complete frontman - but you can't argue with his astonishing stats of almost a goal a game. Scott McDonald (Motherwell): The diminutive Australian striker has signed a pre-contract agreement at Celtic and, with 14 goals already this season, he has a higher tally than any of Celtic's current strikers. His dynamic energy and impressive strike rate could provide Gordon Strachan with the perfect foil for Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink.     