The event, organised by the Princes William and Harry, celebrated the 46th anniversary of their mother's birth and occurred a few weeks before the 10th anniversary of her death on 31 August.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/7337789.stm
Mohamed Al Fayed has always said that Diana and Dodi were murdered (Pic: ITV News/PA) Mohamed Al Fayed has announced that he is abandoning his 10-year campaign to prove that Princess Diana and his son Dodi were murdered in a conspiracy. He said he would accept the inquest jury's verdict of unlawful killing due to the "gross negligence" of driver Henri Paul and the paparazzi. Mr Al Fayed told ITV's News at Ten that he was doing it for the sake of Diana's sons, Princes William and Harry. However, he said he had reservations about the outcome of the inquest. I am leaving the rest for God to get my revenge    Harrods owner Mr Al Fayed said: "Enough is enough, and for the sake of the two princes, whom I know they love their mother and how close they be, I saw them during the holiday and I am sure they are blessing in their deep heart what I am doing to discover the truth. "But as I say, I have enough. I am leaving the rest for God to get my revenge. But I am not doing anything any more." The jury of six women and five men returned joint verdicts of unlawful killing through grossly negligent driving - or gross negligence manslaughter - of both the couple's vehicle and following ones, by majorities of nine to two. Following the inquest, the princes issued a statement saying: "We agree with their verdicts and are both hugely grateful." The inquest into the crash 10 years ago, which also killed Mr Paul, lasted six months. The Mercedes carrying the princess and Dodi Al Fayed crashed into a pillar in the Pont de l'Alma tunnel in Paris in the early hours of 31 August 1997. Mohamed Al Fayed had maintained that Diana and Dodi were murdered in a plot by the Duke of Edinburgh and MI6. After the verdicts Mr Al Fayed said in a statement: "For 10 years I have endured two police investigations. The French and the Scotland Yard inquiries were wrong. These inquests prove it. They said it was an accident and their findings are now dismissed." The total cost to British taxpayers of investigating Princess Diana's death is expected to top £10m.     