To prepare for the role, Adebibe trained in areas the character was expected to excel in like combat, motorcycling, elocution, and conduct.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/derbyshire/8538106.stm
Derby inner ring road to be named Lara Croft Way  Lara Croft was played by the actress Angelina Jolie in the Tomb Raider films A new £36.2m Derby road is to be named after computer game and movie character Lara Croft following a public vote. The star of the Tomb Raider franchise was originally devised by a computer game developer based in the city. More than 27,000 people took part in the vote to name the Osmaston Road to Burton Road stretch of the new route, with 89% opting for Lara Croft Way. A separate stretch of road will be called Mercian Way as a tribute to local soldiers. Other options for the road's name were legendary Derby County footballer Steve Bloomer, the astronomer John Flamsteed and the engineer George Sorocold. Other roads in the city have been named after notable people connected with the county. There is a Sir Frank Whittle Way, Brian Clough Way, Nightingale Road (after Florence) and a Joseph Wright Terrace, named after the artist. Councillor Lucy Care, cabinet member for planning and transportation, said: "The vote really captured the imagination of people from across the world and, despite my lack of gaming knowledge, I accept that a majority of 89% for Lara Croft is too overwhelming to ignore. "She was created in Derby and deserves to stand alongside some of the more traditional icons of the city. "The vote for Mercian Way is also testimony to the passionate local support shown for the servicemen and women serving right now so I'm pleased that there will be a lasting legacy to honour them in what will be the biggest change to Derby's inner road network in 30 years." The Tomb Raider games were created by Core Design, which was based in Derby, and featured the treasure-hunting British archaeologist Lara Croft. The games became best-sellers and were later made into movies featuring Angelina Jolie as Lara. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.     