In an August 2009 interview, Preston admitted that he regretted walking off the show and said that he would return to the programme if asked, saying "I'm struggling to think why I would have acted so weird".
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6361035.stm
He took exception when host Simon Amstell read extracts from an autobiography written by his wife, Celebrity Big Brother winner Chantelle Houghton.  With half of the show still to record, audience member Ed Seymour was drafted in to fill the vacant seat. The 25-year-old rotary driller told the BBC News website about his "surreal" night in front of the cameras.  I knew about Preston because my wife watches Celebrity Big Brother, but he looked like he was in a mood from the minute he walked on.  I don't know why he stormed off. The whole show is basically a mickey-take, so he must have realised that was what he was letting himself in for.  At first I thought it was part of the show, like it had been staged or something.  I expected him to come back but, when he didn't, one of the team captains, Bill Bailey, said: "Well, is there anyone in the crowd who looks like him?"  I tried to hide behind the person in front of me, but Bill Bailey ran up and grabbed me.  I didn't put up a fight, I just thought: "What the hell, I'll go down and see what happens".  They just sat me down. A woman came over and put a mic on me straight away. A couple of minutes later she came over again and I had to ask: "Do you really want me to stay?"  I'd been put on a team with Phill Jupitus and Ed Byrne, which was a bit intimidating. But they were brilliant, to be fair. Really nice to me.  Simon asked me one of the questions where you have to say the next line of a song, and I got completely the wrong words. It wasn't that I didn't have a clue, but I was too busy laughing.  Afterwards, they dragged my wife, my sister-in-law and her fiance down to the green room, where they made me sign some paperwork.  They wanted us to stay but we couldn't because we have a six-month-old baby and my mother was at home looking after it.  I didn't get a single question right all night. I probably did look an absolute fool, but it was worth it for the experience.     Ed's appearance on Never Mind The Buzzcocks will be shown on BBC Two at 2200 GMT on Wednesday, and is repeated at 2205 GMT on Saturday.