However, an unnamed Liverpool-based buyer purchased all 13 properties on 17 December 2008 for £735,000, although by this time, the Close was in a sorry state of disrepair and once again, speculation mounted as to what would happen to the disintegrating houses of Brookside Close.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-merseyside-12504742
Houses from the television soap opera Brookside have been put up for let.  The 13 properties in West Derby, Liverpool, were bought at auction by an anonymous bidder in December 2008.  They had spent years lying empty after the previous developer, who bought the houses from Mersey Television in 2005, went into administration.  Liverpool estate agents Sutton Kersh are letting the properties, from a one-bed maisonette to a four-bed house. Prices range from £425 to £750 a month.  Six of the houses were used as the set, with the other seven housing the administration, post-production, canteen, make-up and technical facilities for cast and crew.  The interior of each property has been redone, with new windows, kitchens and bathrooms.  The name will remain Brookside Close.  Brookside, which was shown on Channel 4 for 21 years, was known for its dramatic and gritty storylines.  One particularly memorable moment was when resident Trevor Jordache was murdered and buried under his patio.  The show also featured British television's first pre-watershed lesbian kiss.  At its height, Brookside regularly attracted eight million viewers.  But it was moved from its usual primetime slot after ratings slumped to about one million. The soap was eventually axed in 2003.  Carol Corran, from Sutton Kersh Lettings, said: "Brookside Close is one of the most well-known cul-de-sacs in the country.  "The houses have been finished to a high specification and provide good value given the space and history that exists with each one."  Suzanne Collins, who played Nikki Shadwick in the soap, said she had some of the best times of her life on the estate.  "It was absolutely fantastic," she said.  "Children used to shout over the fences and we had to pay them off.  "I hope people are as happy here as I was."