John's Wood Synagogue.
www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-33604287
MPs have backed government plans for £12bn in welfare cuts, but acting Labour leader Harriet Harman suffered a significant rebellion in the vote.  The Commons backed the Welfare Reform and Work Bill by 308 to 124 votes.  Forty-eight Labour MPs defied orders to abstain and instead voted against the bill, which includes plans to limit child tax credit to two children.  Of the 53 Labour MPs first elected to Parliament in May, 18 opposed the bill.  During a five-hour debate, Labour MP John McDonnell said he would "swim through vomit" to oppose the legislation.  However, a Labour amendment seeking to derail the legislation was defeated by 308 votes to 208.  Ms Harman has faced criticism for her stance, with many MPs saying she should have been more outspoken in her opposition to curbs on child tax credits and cuts to other in-work benefits.  Mr Corbyn's three Labour leadership rivals - Andy Burnham, Yvette Cooper and Liz Kendall - followed Ms Harman's lead and abstained.  Reacting to the vote, Labour MP Diane Abbott tweeted: "Just voted against Tory welfare bill. Sorry for colleagues who knew it was wrong but abstained. We weren't sent to Parliament to abstain."  Conservative MP and chief secretary to the Treasury Greg Hands tweeted: "47 Labour rebels on welfare tonight. Huge. Biggest Labour rebellion for some time. Leadership crisis without actually having a Leader!"  BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith said things could not be much worse for Labour, with a fifth of the party openly defying the leadership and many more "deeply unhappy".  He told BBC Radio Four's Today programme the split ran "right up through the party, to the shadow cabinet".  The vote showed about half of the new intake were "well to the left of the mainstream", which tells us that the gravitational pull of the party is not back to the centre, but to the left, he added.  He said one of Ms Harman's aides had told him that whoever takes over as party leader has a "hell of a job on their hands".  But Mr Corbyn said the revolt had "strengthened" Labour's position against the Conservatives.  He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme society ought to be "deeply concerned" about child poverty and deprivation levels.  Former Labour Home Secretary David Blunkett, who also served as work and pensions secretary, said the party was in "emotional trauma", and was "not debating enough about where we go from here".  "Last night again focused on us being divided," he said, adding that the Welfare Bill was "clearly not a moment for setting out the alternative".  MPs who won their seats in May were "very lucky" and should ask themselves "why others didn't", he added.  First Harriet Harman took a stand - saying Labour had to wake up and listen to voters on welfare.  Then she compromised - tabling an amendment designed to sidestep a row. And then almost 50 rebels ignored her instructions.  Were she Labour's permanent leader, her authority would be in tatters.  But it's not about her; she'll be gone by the autumn.  The real question is: could any of her would-be successors persuade the party that welfare must be reformed now?  Would they want, or dare, to try?  The bill, which also seeks to lower the overall household benefit cap from £26,000 a year to £20,000 outside of London, and £23,000 in London, as well as to train a further three million apprentices, has now cleared its first parliamentary hurdle and will move on to more detailed scrutiny.  In a passionate debate, Conservative MPs lined up to support the measures.  As well as Labour MPs who did not support the bill, it was opposed by the SNP, the Liberal Democrats, Plaid Cymru and the Greens.  Mr McDonnell said: "I would swim through vomit to vote against this bill and listening to some of the nauseating speeches tonight I think we might have to.  "Poverty in my constituency is not a lifestyle choice, it is imposed upon people.  "We hear lots about how high the welfare bill is, let's understand why that's the case.  "The housing benefit bill is so high because for generations we've failed to build council houses, we've failed to control rents, we've done nothing about the 300,000 properties that stand empty in this country."  SNP employment spokeswoman Hannah Bardell said it was "disgraceful" that Labour had not joined her party in opposing the bill.  "Labour had the perfect opportunity to join the SNP in a progressive coalition to oppose the Tories - but with some honourable exceptions they sat on their hands," she said.  On Twitter, SNP MP Pete Wishart said it was "apparent" that Labour and the SNP together could have defeated the bill.  Tim Farron, in his first Commons speech as Liberal Democrat leader, said his party was voting against the "unfair, unwise and inhuman" proposals.  Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith said Labour was beset by "internal fear and loathing" and that the bill would put welfare funding on a "more sustainable footing" while protecting those most in need.  Speaking after the vote, he said: "Nearly 50 Labour MPs have defied their leadership and opposed our welfare reforms which will move our country from a low wage, high tax and high welfare economy to a higher wage, lower tax and lower welfare society.  "It's clear that Labour are still the same old anti-worker party - just offering more welfare, more borrowing and more taxes."  McDonald, Stuart C - SNP MP for Cumbernauld, Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East