He later coached at Airdrie United in March 2006 and then Clyde in February 2008.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/scotland/2134396.stm
Andy Goram has made his return to Motherwell as a goalkeeping coach.  The former Rangers and Hibernian goalkeeper spent more than a year between the sticks at Fir Park before winning a short-term move to Manchester United.  Recently, he has swapped football for a cricket career and has been turning out for Uddingston Cricket Club in the Scottish National Premier Division.  Now he is set to take on the role of coaching Motherwell goalkeepers Stevie Woods and Francois Dubourdeau on a part-time basis.  But boss Terry Butcher admits Goram is reluctant to hang up his boots for good and will leave his long-term options open.  He said: "Andy is joining the club again in terms of being a goalkeeping coach.  Goram takes over the vacant position from another former Rangers keeper, Jim Stewart, who left to join Kilmarnock full-time.  Butcher continued: "It's good for Motherwell to have him back at the club.  "It's a part-time position, because he still wants to play again and he has his cricket as well.  "But he's a character and he's a winner so I'm hoping that he passes on what he has learned." Goram admitted he was looking forward to returning to his former club, and said he hoped it might lead to a new career. He said: "It gives me the chance to put the the two keepers through their paces and help them out, and also keep myself fit. "I have known Stevie Woods since we were together at Hibs and then we met up again at Fir Park a few years ago. "I was hoping that something would come up playing wise but the phone hasn't rung, so this is a way of keeping myself active and putting something back into the game. Goram added: "Ideally, I would love a full-time appointment at the club, but things have still to be sorted out at Motherwell so the part-time arrangement will have to do for the moment." Despite the financial situation at Motherwell - 19 players were made redundant at the end of last season after the club was placed in the hands of the administrators - Butcher is hoping Goram won't be the only new arrival. The Fir Park boss is determined to add to his squad ahead of the new campaign and is confident he can attract a couple of new players to the club in the coming weeks. He added: "We have one or two irons in the fire and there will definitely be one or two players arriving before the start of the new season." Another former Rangers player, and team-mate of Goram, Ian Ferguson, trained with the Motherwell squad at Smithycroft on Thursday to keep his fitness level up, but said he won't be signing