On the evening of 20 August, he took a flight to Hong Kong, where he requested medical treatment, saying he was suffering a heart attack.
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/7569348.stm
Former pop star Gary Glitter has been deported from Vietnam after spending almost three years in jail for sexually abusing two girls. Glitter, 64, real name Paul Francis Gadd, has arrived at Bangkok in Thailand, where he is due to change planes to fly back to the UK. A BBC correspondent said Glitter looked like a "broken man" on the flight. Glitter sold millions of records as a glam rock star in the 1970s, with hits including I'm the Leader of the Gang. He was convicted in March 2006 for molesting two Vietnamese girls aged 11 and 12, having been in custody since the previous November. BBC News reporter Jonathan Head said Glitter looked tired, haggard and a lot older than at his trial two years ago. He said during the flight he had covered his face with a scarf. "He really did look like a broken man," he said. When he arrived in Bangkok, Glitter was taken away by immigration officials to ensure he caught his connecting flight. It is thought Glitter will land in the UK at 0700 BST on Wednesday. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. A Foreign Office spokesman said it was "a matter for Mr Gadd and the Vietnamese authorities" where Glitter went after he was deported. When he arrives in the UK, the disgraced star will be met at the airport by police and required to sign the register of sex offenders. He will then be subject to monitoring and will have to tell the police where he plans to live and if he plans to go abroad. He could face an order prohibiting him from going near children or using the internet, while a Foreign Travel Order (FTO) could prevent overseas travel if it was thought Glitter intended to reoffend. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said he would face controls if he returned to Britain. "It certainly would be my view that with the sort of record that he's got, he shouldn't be travelling anywhere in the world," she told radio station Talksport. "I want Gary Glitter to be controlled whilst he's here and I don't want him to be able to go anywhere else in the world in order to abuse children." Dr Zoe Hilton, a policy adviser to child protection charity NSPCC, said she thought there was an agreement in place to return Glitter to the UK. "He certainly should return here, where he can be managed," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "It would be appalling if he was able to go off to another country where he poses a high risk to children. "Where there is no structure to actually manage him effectively... it's much more likely that he would be able to get away with offending."