Frentzen spent the majority of qualifying 107% outside of the pole sitters time but took 17th; his first quick time was disallowed after cutting the chicane to set a faster lap and to run in clean air.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/motorsport/857147.stm
McLaren's David Coulthard took pole position ahead of Sunday's German Grand Prix as others suffered at a wet Hockenheim. Ferrari's Michael Schumacher grabbed second with Giancarlo Fisichella claiming third place in his Benetton. Coulthard's team-mate Mika Hakkinen had to settle for fourth. The Scot, who is six points behind championship leader Michael Schumacher, recorded the fastest time in his opening flying lap - just seconds before the rain came down.    I found a lucky moment. I was not expecting to be here. I would have been happy with fourth    The McLaren driver was delighted and relieved that he had taken his chance early. "I managed to find a clean lap. It was good timing from the engineers getting me out when they did," said Coulthard. "The first sector was dry, it was damp in the second but dry in the third though you had to be careful throughout. "I will approach the start the same way as I always do. I intend to turn pole into leading coming out of the first corner. If I do that I have got a good chance of winning." The track, which had been flooded on Friday, took its toll again as the wet weather forced the cars to slow down. Local favourite Schumacher left it very late to claim the other place on the front row. The German was in fourth for the majority of the session after Mika Salo's Sauber had held him up on his first flying lap.    I intend to turn pole into leading coming out of the first corner - if I do that I have got a good chance of winning    "I found a lucky moment. I was not expecting to be here. I would have been happy with fourth," said Schumacher. "We have been competitive all weekend and I am feeling confident for tomorrow." Schumacher's team-mate Rubens Barrichello drove off the circuit on his opener forcing him to drive the German's car in order to try a record a qualifying time for Sunday's race. The Brazilian left it until the final few moments of the session to record a time which will see him start in 18th on the grid. And the drama did not end there after it was announced that Heinz-Harald Frentzen had only 15 minutes in which to go out and qualify, after his initial effort was discounted because he had missed a chicane. But Frentzen, like Barrichello, took his place for Sunday's race, albeit well down the grid. Britain's Johnny Herbert, who by his own admission has had a rotten weekend, took advantage of avoiding the rain early to start eight on the grid while Jaguar team-mate Eddie Irvine is 10th. Starting grid for Sunday's German Grand Prix, the 11th round of the Drivers' World Championship