Later in the week he redeemed himself by converting Healey's try during extra time to win a closely tied match against the Brumbies.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/rugby_union/international/4535937.stm
The 2001 Lions tour is remembered as much for dissent and dissatisfaction as Australia's series win or the thrilling play of Jason Robinson and Brian O'Driscoll.  By common consent, coach Graham Henry failed to find the right balance between training and relaxing for his players.  Outspoken England duo Austin Healey - the "Leicester Lip" - and Matt Dawson were famously disciplined for criticising Henry's gruelling regime.  Even the usually circumspect Jason Robinson accused Henry and his coaches of making the players tired and jaded in his autobiography.  It is a lesson Clive Woodward will do well to heed, according to former Ireland centre Rob Henderson, who played in all three Tests on the 2001 tour.  "You need to be fully focused when you're training, but you need down-time to relax and take it all in," Henderson told BBC Sport.  "Otherwise, the whole experience will pass you by, which is a shame. A Lions tour only comes round once every four years.  "If it passes by in a blur and all you can remember is training, I don't think that's the ethos of the whole thing."  "But with so many coaches on board, everyone wanted to get his 20 minutes or half an hour in training.  "So you're sitting on the field for about two hours a day, which isn't ideal at the back of a long season when you're taking on the world champions.  "You can be too structured. Sometimes you just need to say 'here you go boys, let's play rugby'.  "I'm sure things will be a lot different this time. They've got an able coach, able coaching staff, a good captain and good players."  Yet Henderson maintains the players must be willing to go through some hardship on a Lions tour.  "You're involved in a situation that comes round once every four years," he said.  "So if you can't make small sacrifices for that, you're in the wrong field."  Players who have been enemies during the Six Nations have to come together for a common cause.  Greenwood had been expected to play in the Tests but was prevented from doing so because of injury, handing Henderson his chance.  Greenwood has said he was deeply touched by this gesture from an Irishman to an Englishman.  "It was just something that needed to be done at the time," Henderson said. "I'm glad it was taken in the spirit it was meant."  Strong characters usually come to the fore on Lions tours, like Yorkshireman John Bentley in 1997.  But Henderson says the most important thing is for the players to be themselves.  "Everyone will be a character in their own right on the tour," he said.  "You don't need everyone to conform and be a robot. You need people chatting on and off the field.  "The initial gelling together is difficult. But you know these guys - you've played against them and talked after matches.  "All you need is to put a few patterns together, a few plays.  "The Lions is the highlight of anyone's career. And thanks to modern technology I can keep the memories with me and also meet the other guys on a regular basis."