It has subsequently been aired in multiple countries and shown at various film festivals, including the 2005 Cannes Film Festival.
genome.ch.bbc.co.uk/cc3b6876ce754703b8db7fe6731a4943
How the illusory threat of a hidden network of terror has come to dominate politics thoughout the world. Political philosopher Leo Strauss and Egyptian school inspector Sayyid Qutb both believed that liberalism eroded the bonds that held society together. The respective movements they inspired set out, in their different ways, to rescue their societies from this decay. But the public's growing disillusionment with politics led to US neoconservatives creating a hidden network of evil run by the Soviet Union, while Islamists turned to terror to enforce their message.      The first part of the series explains the origin of Islamism and Neo-Conservatism. It shows Egyptian civil servant Sayyid Qutb, depicted as the founder of modern Islamist thought, visiting the U.S. to learn about the education system, but becoming disgusted with what he saw as a corruption of morals and virtues in western society through individualism. When he returns to Egypt, he is disturbed by westernisation under Gamal Abdel Nasser and becomes convinced that in order to save society it must be completely restructured along the lines of Islamic law while still using western technology. He also becomes convinced that this can only be accomplished through the use of an elite "vanguard" to lead a revolution against the established order. Qutb becomes a leader of the Muslim Brotherhood and, after being tortured in one of Nasser's jails, comes to believe that western-influenced leaders can justly be killed for the sake of removing their corruption. Qutb is executed in 1966, but he influences the future mentor of Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, to start his own secret Islamist group. Inspired by the 1979 Iranian revolution, Zawahiri and his allies assassinate Egyptian president Anwar Al Sadat, in 1981, in hopes of starting their own revolution. The revolution does not materialise, and Zawahiri comes to believe that the majority of Muslims have been corrupted not only by their western-inspired leaders, but Muslims themselves have been affected by jahilliyah and thus both may be legitimate targets of violence if they do not join him. They continued to have the belief that a vanguard was necessary to rise up and overthrow the corrupt regime and replace it with a pure Islamist state. At the same time in the United States, a group of disillusioned liberals, including Irving Kristol and Paul Wolfowitz, look to the political thinking of Leo Strauss after the perceived failure of President Johnson's "Great Society". They come to the conclusion that the emphasis on individual liberty was the undoing of the plan. They envisioned restructuring America by uniting the American people against a common evil, and set about creating a mythical enemy. These factions, the Neo-Conservatives, came to power under the Reagan administration, with their allies Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, and work to unite the United States in fear of the Soviet Union. The Neo-Conservatives allege the Soviet Union is not following the terms of disarmament between the two countries, and, with the investigation of "Team B", they accumulate a case to prove this with dubious evidence and methods. President Reagan is convinced nonetheless.   Is the al-Qaeda threat exaggerated?: page 30  Tell us more Do you know something about this programme that we have not included above? Use the box below if you know of any additional or different details about the programme – at present the synopsis and contributor list will just reflect what is in Radio Times magazine. We will retain all information for possible future use, to fill in gaps in data and to help us bring the BBC’s broadcast history to life, but we will not be publishing it at this stage. If there is something you wish to ask us, please email GenomeFeedback@bbc.co.uk – please note we can only answer queries through this address.