His Chelsea league career got off to a good start, scoring a goal on his debut on the opening weekend of the 2007–08 Premier League season against Birmingham City.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/6929113.stm
The Dutch keeper saved three penalties in a row to give United victory.  Ryan Giggs had put United ahead after 35 minutes, lashing the ball into the top of the net after a slick move.  But Chelsea drew level before half-time when new signing Florent Malouda raced on to a long ball from Ashley Cole and poked the ball past Van der Sar.  After a goalless second half, the match went straight to penalties, with Van der Sar saving from Claudio Pizarro, Frank Lampard and Shaun Wright-Phillips to leave Wayne Rooney to score the winning spot-kick.  The drama of the penalty shoot-out did nothing to hide what was a largely uneventful game.  The Community Shield may be dubbed a curtain-raiser but much of the encounter brought back unhappy memories of the tedious FA Cup final between the two sides at Wembley last season.  Maybe the 30C heat was to blame - or maybe it was the personnel.  Despite spending a reported £47m on some new blood over the summer, Ferguson included eight of the players who began that final and none of his new signings in his starting line-up.  Chelsea, already without skipper John Terry, also lost Didier Drogba to injury, leaving new signing Malouda, Joe Cole and Wright-Phillips to form an unfamiliar frontline.  At least the sun was shining for a packed Wembley crowd, who had to wait 21 minutes for the first threat on goal when Giggs' effort was deflected over by Ashley Cole.  It was from almost the same position that Giggs put his side ahead with his first Wembley goal for United.  Nemanja Vidic found Patrice Evra on the left with a stunning cross-field pass and the Frenchman exchanged passes with Cristiano Ronaldo before setting up his captain, who thumped the ball home.  Chelsea, in turn, produced their best move of the half to equalise.  Ashley Cole lifted a beautifully weighted ball over the top and Malouda easily outmuscled Rio Ferdinand before finishing superbly with his left foot.  The Frenchman's joy was immediately tempered by an injury and, although he returned to the pitch after treatment, he was withdrawn within seven minutes of the second half.  Indeed, Malouda's departure was the first of several as both managers gave their substitutes a chance to shine.  Claudio Pizarro, Lassana Diara, Steve Sidwell and Scott Sinclair all came on for Chelsea, while United introduced Nani and Darren Fletcher.  It made for a disjointed second half, which almost inevitably ended with penalties, Rio Ferdinand, Michael Carrick and Rooney scoring theirs to give United first blood.  There are sure to be tougher - and more compelling - tests ahead.