He returned to Premier League action on 23 August 2006 when he scored in an away match against Charlton Athletic, his first Premier League goal since April 2003.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/m/man_utd/5183620.stm
Solskjaer, 33, has been out for almost two seasons through injury.  The Norwegian's sharp half-volley put United ahead, and he then cashed in on Innocent Mdledle's hesitation to put United two up at half time.  Kieran Richardson scored United's third with Francis Chansa's own goal rounding off the scoring.  Solskjaer accepted a role as club ambassador when he was handed a new two-year contract last season, and it looked as though he was preparing to wind down his career.  But the Old Trafford favourite showed his determination to press for a first-team place again, news Sir Alex Ferguson may be grateful for with Ruud van Nistelrooy apparently on his way out.  United's touring party was shorn of its World Cup players, but with Ryan Giggs, Wes Brown and Paul Scholes taking part, United still had a strong look about them.  Solskjaer's last senior goal for United was almost three years ago, but he showed all his old sharpness as he latched on to Gigg's flick to blast home a powerful half-volley.  The Norwegian's second goal showed he has lost none of his sharpness of brain as he picked the pocket of hesitating defender Innocent Mdelele to finish coolly.  The Pirates had enough going forward to give United a good work-out and with Wes Brown having an off-day, Blaise Lelo-Mbele had a chance to shine.  Goalkeeper Ben Foster, who will return to Watford for a season-long loan, was hardly tested, while Francis Chansa at the other end had to react to deny Richardson and Paul Scholes.  Scholes also looked lively after an injury-plagued season but it was Richardson who notched United's third, lashing home a shot from 20 yards after a defender's challenge teed up a shooting chance.  Chinese striker Dong Fangzhou impressed after coming on as a substitute and his cross led to United's fourth when panic-stricken defender Lehlo Seema lashed the ball against the luckless Chansa's head where it rebounded into the net.