O'Sullivan then defeated Jimmy White (3–1), Stephen Hendry (3–1), Stephen Maguire (3–1) and Peter Ebdon (3–1) to reach the final, where he lost 1–5 against Neil Robertson.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/other_sports/snooker/9016342.stm
WORLD OPEN   Venue: SECC, Glasgow Dates: 18-26 September Coverage: Watch live on BBC TV, Red Button and BBC Sport website (UK only); Listen on BBC Radio 5 live for regular updates; Comprehensive reports on the BBC Sport website & mobiles Ronnie O'Sullivan fired a remarkable 147 break at the World Open in Glasgow after halting play when on eight points to check the prize for a maximum. He was told there was no separate purse but cleared up to beat Mark King 3-0. The 34-year-old appeared content to end on the pink in the final frame and had to be persuaded to pot the black. Jimmy White now waits in the fourth round for O'Sullivan, whose break was a record 10th career maximum, one more than his rival Stephen Hendry. It was a typically extraordinary performance from the mercurial O'Sullivan, who has surprisingly fallen to sixth in the world rankings, largely because he chose to miss the recent event in Shanghai. Legend. Where would snooker be without him?    O'Sullivan took the first frame in 10 minutes after breaks of 38 and 75. The second frame was a comedy of errors, with gritty left-hander King running out of position having made only 15. O'Sullivan fought his way back into the frame but only a couple of shots from securing a 2-0 lead he saw a break end on 25 when an attempt into the centre pocket bounced out of the jaws. King reduced the deficit to 14 points with a run of 20 then left the yellow, but after O'Sullivan potted it he played a wild shot that let in the left-hander. He could only knock in the green but another reckless shot from O'Sullivan gave him another chance, although in potting the brown over the pocket he snookered himself on the pink and after a few more shenanigans O'Sullivan took the frame. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. Then came the brilliance, and after potting the first red and black in frame three O'Sullivan halted proceedings to ask what the prize for a 147 was, only to be eventually told there was no additional purse and only a £4,000 sum for the highest break. He potted some outstanding balls in his maximum, achieved in barely 10 minutes - even with the delay when researching about the 147 prize - but shook hands with King after disposing of the pink. Referee Jan Verhaas persuaded O'Sullivan to finish the break and he duly slammed in the black in nonchalant fashion. "I wasn't going to pot the black to be honest with you because I asked the ref and was told there was no break prize for a 147," O'Sullivan admitted to the BBC. "I wanted to make sure because if there was a decent prize then I would definitely have gone for it and I thought I might as well go for it anyway. "Jan talked me into it [potting the black]. My whole thing was I was going to make 140 and leave the black. What's the point of making a 147 if they're only going to give you four grand for it? "I'm surprised. They're getting stingier. I thought Barry Hearn was supposed to be putting more money into the game, not taking it out. "I've had loads of 147s so I don't really get excited by it and thought I needed to give myself something to go for. I just thought 'why not?'" O'Sullivan has been a supporter of Hearn, who has promised to revitalise the sport as new supremo of World Snooker. In other matches, Alan McManus withstood a fightback from Matthew Stevens to secure a 3-2 victory. The Scot was 2-0 ahead before Stevens took the match to a deciding frame, which McManus eventually won after putting the Welshman in a difficult snooker. China's Liu Song prevailed against Joe Jongia in a match littered with errors, the world number 88 beating the man ranked 20 places higher 3-1. In the evening session Jamie Cope defeated Dave Harold to prevail in the battle of the two Stoke potters. Cope secured a 3-2 victory to secure his progress in the next round. And the final game of the day saw Scotland's Marcus Campbell defeat Mike Dunn 3-1. Campbell raced into a 2-0 lead and despite being pegged back eventually secured victory. The shorter-form World Open sees only three frames needed to win in the early rounds.     