He did record a short interview with Steve Davis for the BBC, stating that he was much happier than at the UK Championship, and that he was playing well once again.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/other_sports/snooker/6268565.stm
O'Sullivan could yet face disciplinary action by World Snooker over his walkout in December's UK Championship.  A spokesman confirmed O'Sullivan was obliged to talk to reporters after a match and said a report would now go to World Snooker's disciplinary panel.  "The Rocket" did a brief TV interview with ex-world champion Steve Davis.  O'Sullivan said he had only begun practising again a week ago after conceding to Stephen Hendry while 4-1 down in their quarter-final in York.  The two-time Masters winner cited "personal reasons" for his walkout, but told Davis: "I'm feeling fine.  "Since York, I've had fantastic support from the fans and from people in the snooker world, and I'm enjoying playing."  O'Sullivan certainly enjoyed himself against Carter who paid the price for a handful errors against his former practice partner.  The double world champion raced to a 3-0 lead on the back of breaks of 91, 73 and 106.  Carter gave himself half a chance by taking the fourth frame before the interval, but a missed red in the next allowed O'Sullivan to make a break of 64 and go further ahead.  Another mistake, this time on a straightforward black, allowed O'Sullivan to compile a 117 run in nine minutes for a 5-1 lead.  A second missed black after a break of 37 then sealed Carter's fate as a 92 clearance gave O'Sullivan victory.  He added: "Ali has done that to me in practice before and I've got the utmost respect for him.  "But I played well today, scored well straight from the start, and tried to keep the pressure on him all the time, even at 4-1 and 5-1."  Carter said: "I could have got a bit more out of the match but Ronnie severely punishes your mistakes when he's playing as well as that."  O'Sullivan now plays Ken Doherty in the quarter-finals, following the Irishman's 6-3 win over Barry Hawkins.