This phrase even gave rise to the initialism #SATTC trending on the website Twitter during that weekend as listeners speculated about what might happen, and then reported their views as the story unfolded.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2010/05_may/27/sopps.shtml
The BBC's Statements of Programme Policy (SoPPs) for 2010/2011 are published today here.  These statements outline the commitments and editorial priorities across BBC services for the year ahead and explain how each service will deliver the requirements of their Service Licence and Purpose Remit.  Following the BBC's publication of its strategy review Putting Quality First, five clear content priorities have been identified which the BBC will strive to deliver to its audiences: the best journalism in the world; inspiring knowledge, culture and music; ambitious UK drama and comedy; outstanding children's content; and events that bring communities and the nation together.  The publication of the statements demonstrate the BBC's ongoing commitment to meeting audience needs and to delivering excellence and value across all of its services.  The BBC will continue its role in providing the best journalism in the world.  The BBC will retain its focus on ambitious UK drama and comedy programmes with fresh new ideas remaining a hallmark of BBC's output.  Programming that inspires knowledge, culture and music will be further enhanced across BBC services in the year ahead.  Sport and Event programming will play a central part across the BBC this year.  The BBC will continue its commitment to outstanding children's content with highlights including:  BBC Online will continue to provide world-class content and services to users in the UK and across the world.  The BBC's Statements of Programme Policy 2010/11 are published on the About the BBC website.  Under the Communications Act 2003, each public service broadcaster must produce an annual statement identifying its commitments for delivering its public service remit in the year ahead. This is the eighth set of BBC statements.  The terms under which the BBC is required to produce statements for its public services are covered in the Agreement with the Secretary of State presented to Parliament in July 2006.  The regulatory programming quotas placed on the BBC, which are monitored by Ofcom, are in addition to SoPPs commitments. These are measured by Ofcom on a calendar year basis and compliance reported by the external regulator.  The BBC Trust will monitor the BBC's performance against these statements. The BBC will report against the statements made today and will publish their findings in the Annual Report and Accounts 2010/2011, scheduled for publication in July 2011.  The BBC's accounting year runs from 1 April to 31 March.