Tremlett was selected by the MCC to play against Durham, the champion county, in March 2010 but was withdrawn on the insistence of Surrey manager Chris Adams to minimise the risk of injury early in Surrey's season.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/cricket/counties/surrey/8483248.stm
Tremlett will hope the move to a new county can re-invigorate his career The 28-year-old, who has played three Test matches for England, has signed a three-year contract at The Oval. Hampshire chairman Rod Bransgrove told BBC Radio Solent: "It's true Chris wasn't getting a lot of help from the Rose Bowl wickets in recent years. "We're sorry to lose high-quality players but we've not been getting everything we'd have liked from Chris in terms of fitness and availability." Bransgrove said he had spoken to Tremlett and had agreed with the player that a new challenge might "re-invigorate" his career. Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play. "It was a difficult decision as there's a lot of emotion tied up with Chris. "His father has been with the club for many years and they are an important family in Hampshire cricket - but it was the right decision." Tremlett's career at the Rose Bowl has looked in doubt since Hampshire signed Worcestershire fast bowlers Kabir Ali and Simon Jones. Tremlett made his debut for Hampshire in 2000 against Yorkshire and comes from a notable cricketing family. As a Hants fan I wish him luck, he was a terrific player for us , hopefully he can get his career back on track with Surrey    His grandfather Maurice played for England and Somerset while father Tim is an integral part of Hampshire having served as a player, director of cricket and is currently the club secretary. Surrey cricket manager Chris Adams said: "Chris is just beginning to approach the prime of his career. "His height, pace and action make him suited to bowling at The Oval and I am looking forward to him developing partnerships in our pace attack." Surrey have made huge changes to their squad after a poor 2009 campaign. Nine players have left the staff, with Steven Davies, Gareth Batty, Piyush Chawla and Rory Hamilton-Brown all joining in addition to Tremlett.     