The rule was used for a third time in the 2014 competition when Rangi Chase scored a drop goal in the 83rd minute to send Salford City Reds through 37-36 at Hull F.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/rugby_league/8037824.stm
Sherwin was involved in all of the late-match drama A Brent Sherwin drop-goal in sudden death extra-time gave Castleford victory over Championship side Halifax to reach the Challenge Cup last eight. Sherwin had levelled a thrilling game with a try five minutes from the end of normal time but missed with the resulting conversion. But early in the extra period he made amends with a kick from 40m which went over the bar. It was the first Challenge Cup tie to be decided by a golden point. The visitors, who are unbeaten at the top of the Co-operative Championship, made a strong start and a Lee Patterson penalty and Shad Royston's try, converted by Patterson, made it 8-0. A Ryan McGoldrick score under the posts, converted by Kirk Dixon, put Castleford back into it but after Michael Shenton knocked on from the restart Halifax were awarded another penalty, which Paterson kicked to make it 10-6. In an open game it was Castleford's turn to score next and they went in front for the first time as centre James Evans went over in the corner and Dixon added a touchline conversion on 28 minutes. Halifax levelled through a third Paterson penalty only for the hosts to edge in front three minutes from half-time as Sherwin sent Shenton over in the left corner. It was level again within two minutes of the second half as a superb handling movement resulted in Dwayne Barker going over on the left flank. The stunned Tigers conceded again two minutes later as Bob Beswick darted over from close range. Paterson's goal made it 22-16. But Castleford were back in front by the 54th minute as winger Dixon and stand-off Rangi Chase went over for unconverted tries. McGoldrick was next to cross the line from close range and Dixon's conversion made it 30-22. Back came Halifax to turn the game around with two tries by Beswick to complete his hat-trick and two conversions from Paterson. But Sherwin's late try and his extra-time score ensured a grandstand finish. "The way we started wasn't great, but at the end of the day we are in the draw. Full credit to Halifax - they played some wonderful rugby and they will certainly bring the crowds back with that. "I wasn't surprised by them. I have watched them a few times and know what they are capable of. If you give any team that much ball, they are going to trouble you. "We spoke about the threats and about the fact we needed to respect the football, but from the first two sets we didn't compete and that set the tone for the game, but the belief is there and we are in the draw, that's the main thing."     