At this event Hoy won both the Sprint and Keirin competitions, defeating likes of Jason Kenny, Jamie Staff, Ross Edgar, Matthew Crampton and Teun Mulder along the way.
news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/other_sports/cycling/7765492.stm
Hoy won sprint, team sprint and keirin gold in Beijing this year Chris Hoy insisted there will be no let-up after outsprinting Britain's young stars in his first races in the UK since winning three Olympic golds. Hoy beat Dave Daniell in the sprint and Matt Crampton in the invitation keirin at the Revolution event in Manchester. "I am ready to knuckle down for the next 15 weeks before the World Championships," said Hoy. "If you take the foot off the gas for too long with the team we have here, you're going to struggle to get back." Hoy's performance came amid reports he has been told to cut down on public appearances and concentrate on training again. His manager Ricky Cowan told the Scotland on Sunday newspaper: "I was called down to Manchester to discuss Chris's training regime. "What was OK two weeks ago has now been overruled by British Cycling and the fact that he is competing and training with the team and individually is making [other appearances] difficult." To just make the final was a real big ask for me but to win it, I am absolutely chuffed    Hoy, who won the individual sprint, team sprint and keirin in Beijing to take his Olympic gold medal tally to four, began his season with a sprint victory at the Milan 6 at the beginning of November. He was greeted on his return to Manchester by a packed crowd, who gave him a standing ovation on his announcement and queued for autographs. Despite being fifth in qualifying for the sprint, with 10.352 seconds over 200m, he overhauled Crampton on the last bend in the semi-final then just pipped Daniell in the final. In the keirin he launched a two-lap assault to overcome Crampton in a field that included Dutch keirin great Teun Mulder. "I am absolutely delighted to be honest," Hoy told the British Cycling website. "Being fifth fastest I had to race out of my skin to win the sprint. "David Daniell in particular is going really well right now so to just make the final was a real big ask for me but to win it, I am absolutely chuffed." Among Hoy's forthcoming off-track commitments is Sunday's Race of Champions, against F1 start Lewis Hamilton at Wembley. However, he will move to Perth in Western Australia at the start of January for a five-week training camp. He then plans to race the final leg of the World Cup in Copenhagen before the World Championships in Pruszkow, Poland, in March.