On 9 March the club recorded a 9–1 home win against East Stirlingshire, with Jordan White scoring four goals.
www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/21586537
Rangers trudged out of Forthbank without a win for the second time this season as Stirling Albion hit back to earn a draw.  Rangers had notched up nine successive away league wins since losing 1-0 at the Binos in October.  And the Third Division leaders looked to be on their way again when Andy Little rolled in a shot on 16 minutes.  However, Ross Forsyth levelled early in the second half with a powerful header from Kieran McAnespie's free-kick.  The hiccup reduces Rangers' lead at the top of the table to 20 points.  A lethargic second-half display coupled with an inability to defend crosses cost Ally McCoist's men the victory this time, yet Rangers had looked hungry in the opening exchanges.  Home striker Jordan White headed over a McAnespie's free-kick just before the visitors went ahead.  Dean Shiels slotted a finely-weighted pass in behind the defence for Little to gallop onto.  With one touch to round the on-rushing goalkeeper, he took another to set himself before stroking the ball into the empty for his 22nd goal of the season.  Brian Allison - the man who consigned the Light Blues to their only league defeat of the season - was found by another McAnespie set-piece but headed wide.  Little was set free again by Kal Naismith's through-ball down the inside-right channel on 23 minutes but saw David Crawford stand up to his shot.  But having had a couple of warnings in the first half, Rangers once again failed to learn their lesson as McAnespie swung another fantastic delivery into the box six minutes after the interval.  Full-back Anestis Argyriou had been penalised for a shove on Johnstone and with the free-kick, the former Hearts and St Johnstone midfielder picked out Forsyth to bullet home the equaliser.  Stunned by the goal, Rangers' fluid display of the first half was replaced by an aimless succession of long balls up to Little.  However, with 20 minutes left, the visitors were gifted a chance to win when Stirling right-back Jamie McCunnie was short with his chest-pass to Crawford as Little lurked.  The Rangers goal-scorer got there before the keeper but put his shot into the side-netting.  Stirling could have heaped even more misery on their opponents as Mark Ferry shot just wide from McAnespie's headed flick on, while the midfielder proved himself useful at the other end as he headed clear from Rangers substitute Francisco Sandaza's volley.  There was another scare for the Rangers support as McAnespie had a late free-kick pushed away by Neil Alexander, while Little should have done better than send a volley straight at Crawford at the death.  Rangers: Alexander, Argyriou, Hegarty, Emilson Cribari, Wallace, Black, Naismith, Hutton, Little, Shiels (Sandaza 73), Templeton (McKay 72). Subs Not Used: Gallagher, Faure, Robert Crawford.