The show grew into a phenomenon largely due to its personal engagement of the contestants, thereby prompting viewers to vote, and the presence of the acid-tongued Cowell as a judge.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/tv_and_radio/1957221.stm
Budding music stars in the United States have had their first chance to take part in Pop Idol, the talent search that became a TV phenomenon in the UK. Called American Idol: The Search for a Superstar, thousands of US hopefuls are being judged by a panel of experts, including Simon Cowell, the record executive who was labelled the "Mr Nasty" of the UK show. He is joined by 1980s star Paula Abdul and Randy Jackson, of MCA records, to give their opinions on thousands of young singers. The first rounds of auditions were taking place on Monday in New York, and have already been held in Los Angeles, Chicago and Seattle. Abdul, who had hits with Straight Up and Opposites Attract, said: "We're looking for good voice, presentation and confidence." Pop Idol was billed in the US as "the biggest thing to hit Great Britain since The Beatles". "It really was a phenomenon, and we are hoping we can only have some of their success," according to Mike Darnell from TV network Fox. The UK show's winner Will Young went on to break the record for the fastest-selling single in chart history. It became a national talking point and the final attracted more than 13 million viewers and a record 8.7 million phone votes. The show's success was recognised on Sunday when it won the prestigious Golden Rose at Montreux for overall best programme. American Idol is being made by the same people that made Pop Idol, led by pop supremo and former Spice Girls manager Simon Fuller. The US series is reported to be worth $50m (£35m) to Fuller. As in the UK version, the prize for the winner is a contract with record company BMG, and if the show is a success, they are likely to become instant stars. "When I dreamt up the idea of Pop Idol, I always saw it is a global concept, and I'm so delighted to see it being made for America," Fuller has said. US viewers will see the new show on Fox from 11 June. Talent search shows have had success in the US in the past - pop group O-Town came out of the show Making the Band, but the groups formed on two series of Popstars have not yet made the big time. Several countries have already screened their own versions of Pop Idol - including Spain, where the show broke the record for the biggest ever TV audience. France's Star Academy has also been a hit, while the third series of Popstars in Australia has been searching for just one winner. Pop Idol will follow successful UK TV exports including Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? and The Weakest Link.