"Lift Me Up" reached number one in the UK Singles Chart on 13 November 1999, selling 140,000 copies in its first week, 30,000 more copies than "What I Am".
news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/500165.stm
The two singers are battling it out for the top spot with new singles which were both released on Monday.  Halliwell criticised record company executives for allegedly exploiting fans by encouraging the head-to-head race.  "I think that we should be responsible about that because that little kid has to part with four quid and making them decide is really wicked, I think. That is like choosing between two parents," she said at the launch of her single Lift Me Up, at a record shop in central London.  Halliwell, 27, is hoping her third post-Spice Girls single will follow up her first solo number one Mi Chico Latino.  Industry figures leaked on Tuesday evening showed Halliwell was 600 sales ahead of Bunton - with a spokesman for the HMV retail chain saying: "It's going to be one of the closest calls there has been in recent years."  The former Ginger Spice took advantage of the recent wave of hip-gyrating Latin-mania which helped boost her second single to the top. Her debut solo single, Look At Me, went to number two.  Both singers have been making numerous TV promotional appearances.  Bunton has had plenty of exposure on music channel VH-1, where she has been a guest presenter this month, while Halliwell grabbed tabloid headlines for kissing singer Kylie Minogue on Channel 4 show TFI Friday.  The battle for top spot will be seen as a test of how Halliwell's career is progressing compared with her former colleagues.  Scary Spice Mel G was the first to go it alone with I Want You Back, but her follow-up Word Up reached only a disappointing 14.  Sporty Spice Mel C hit number four with her first effort Goin' Down.  A poll by the Dotmusic website this week found little between Look At Me and What I Am.  However, Halliwell - who left the group last year - nudged ahead as the more likely number one with 53% of votes compared with Bunton's 47%.  All will be revealed on 6 November when the new UK Top 40 is revealed.