Entitled "Window on the World", these new idents feature a cut-out '2' made from various materials behind which different scenes can be seen.
www.bbc.co.uk/pressoffice/pressreleases/stories/2007/02_february/13/two.shtml
   BBC Two's new "Window on the World"       BBC Two has refreshed its on-screen identity with 14 new idents based on seven new themes, along with a new logo and colour palette which will work across linear and broadband. For the new idents, which will be on air from Sunday 18 February 2007, the figure 2 has become a "window on the world", a portal through which the world is seen differently. The seven different scenarios reflect the range and diversity of content on the channel. In each ident the camera pulls back to reveal that you are looking at the world in an unexpected way - through the figure 2. Roly Keating, Controller of BBC Two, says: "Our famous 2 is one of the most recognisable and durable brand images in British media, and this latest evolution takes it into fresh and exciting territory. "These new idents embody all of BBC Two's distinctive humour, creativity, playfulness and surprise - and they're also beautifully-executed pieces of film-making in their own right." The logo retains its block shape in line with the rest of the portfolio, but has a more contemporary font (Avenir) and a new colour (deep aqua). The BBC Two colour palette has been extended to include a range of six new colours. The on screen presentation system and the channel's broadband website have also been changed to reflect the new idents and colour palette. Designed by Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO and produced by Red Bee Media, the seven new idents are: Mirror - the world in a 2-shaped car mirror as it speeds along. Tent - a 2-shaped door to a tent is opened to reveal three different scenes: a pop festival, beach and polar landscape. Sunroof - looking up at the sky through a 2-shaped sunroof. Zoetrope - a sci-fi scene viewed through the windows of a zoetrope. Viewers can also create their own versions - citizen idents - of the new BBC Two look by downloading the 2 template from the channel website - bbc.co.uk/bbctwo. The template will be available from 28 February, when the transition to the new look website is complete, and the best ones will be posted on the site. And a specially created wall chart will be available from 18 February celebrating some of the most memorable BBC Two idents. James Pestell, Head of Marketing for BBC Two, says: "AMV has delivered a really clear, simple creative idea with endless possibilities. "It expertly captures both the channel's brand values and its personality in a wide range of scenarios that reveal gripping, exciting and exhilarating situations. "We were keen to keep the clever, witty and mischievous personality of the 2 but move it into a whole new space. "The new channel identity reflects the way that the brand has evolved over the last five years. "It has been skilfully brought to life by Red Bee, which has produced the idents and the complementary on-screen presentation system." Paul Brazier, Creative Director at Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO, says: "Six months ago an advertising agency pitched against three brand identity specialists to create something the nation will enjoy for years to come. "You're about to see the fruits of our labour and I'm really proud of the work." Andy Bryant, Director, Creative at Red Bee Media, says: "This project has been a classic Red Bee collaboration, working closely with the BBC Two team and AMV to bring to life an ambitious idea and to transform BBC Two's identity, both on-screen and online." The Art Director is Rob Oliver and the writer is Chris Bardsley, both from Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO. The producer of the idents is Red Bee Media's John Golley and the directors were Joanna Bailey, Michael Geoghegan, Marky, Ian Cross and Stuart Hilton. On-screen presentation has been developed by Paul Mitchell, Chief Designer, Red Bee Media. Lisa Rathband at Red Bee Media is the producer of the on-screen presentation. Music has been composed by Vince Pope from Beetroot. Animation was by Picasso Pictures. DVDs of the seven themed idents are available for the media.   