Raza Ul-Haq Aslam was a third lookout and was sentenced to eight years in prison for a single robbery offence.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/bradford/6410633.stm
Police said Razzaq played a pivotal role in organising the robbery A man convicted of the manslaughter of policewoman Sharon Beshenivsky has been jailed for 20 years. Hassan Razzaq, 26, of Forest Gate, east London, was found guilty of manslaughter, robbery and gun offences after an 11-week trial last year. He was cleared of murdering the 38-year-old, who was shot dead after a bungled armed raid at a travel agents in Bradford in November 2005. Razzaq was jailed at Leeds Crown Court on Friday. Sentencing him, Mr Justice Andrew Smith said: "It's the implication of the jury's verdict that you knew that loaded guns, both a highly dangerous machine gun and the fatal pistol, would not only be carried by the raiders but used to threaten those who got in the way. Sharon Beshenivsky had been a police officer for just nine months "You were involved in planning the robbery several days before. This was not impulsive behaviour but measured and determined offending." Outside court, Det Supt Andy Brennan said Razzaq had played a pivotal role in the planning and organisation of the robbery. Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah, 25, of no fixed address, and Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, of Small Heath, Birmingham, have both been found guilty of murder and sentenced to life with a minimum term of 35 years. Razzaq's younger brother Faisal, 25, also of Forest Gate, east London, was cleared of the officer's murder, but convicted of her manslaughter, robbery and firearms offences. He was given a life sentence and told he must serve at least 11 years before being considered for parole. Pc Beshenivsky was shot and killed as she arrived at the scene of the robbery on 18 November 2005 - her youngest daughter's fourth birthday. She was the first woman police officer to be shot dead on duty since Wpc Yvonne Fletcher was gunned down outside the Libyan embassy in London on April 17, 1984. Her colleague, Pc Teresa Milburn, was also shot in the street as the robbers escaped with little more than £5,000. Mr Brennan said he was "confident" that two men still wanted in connection with the shootings - Mustaf Jamma and Piran Ditta Khan - would be caught and brought to trial.     