The Asda and Morrisons supermarkets adjacent to the river were also flooded.
news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6247996.stm
Heavy rain is forecast for the county over the next few days and, although water levels are subsiding, flood watches remain for the Trent and Idle.  Nottinghamshire Police said there were no new incidents overnight and the A1 between Markham Moor and Five Lane Ends has now reopened.  But the A617 in Kelham remains closed because of flooding.  Trains between Mansfield Woodhouse and Worksop have also been suspended.  Caroline Watson, from the Environment Agency in Nottingham, said the situation was being monitored very closely.  "The incident room in Nottingham is still really busy. We're responding to queries from people in Nottinghamshire and there have been a lot of people affected by the flooding.  "A lot of people are also alarmed about the flooding that might occur... but we're keeping a close eye on the rivers to make sure they're not going to rise too much further."  On Wednesday water from the River Idle flooded Kings Park in Retford with at least three feet of water.  Some areas of Kelham, near Newark, were also underwater after the Trent burst its banks, and Newark Rugby Club was also flooded.  The A1 was closed in both directions between the A46 and A57 - Winthorpe and Markham Moor - north of Newark.  Some roads remain closed in Worksop and the A617 and A616 have also been hit.  About 70 homes and businesses in Worksop were evacuated on Tuesday after heavy rains caused serious flooding.  The town centre was sealed off by police while fire brigade teams helped with the evacuation.  Parts of Attenborough village, south of Nottingham, were under several feet of water, with the football club and cricket ground submerged.  Clean-up operations continued in Lambley, Woodborough, Burton Joyce and Lowdham after serious flooding hit the area twice in four days.  Problems started when 40mm (1.6in) of rain fell in 24 hours, compared with the June average of 60mm for the whole month.