Some left-wing supporters claimed that Mbeki and his more market-oriented wing of the party had conspired to oust Zuma to entrench their dominance in the ANC.
www.bbc.co.uk/shropshire/films/bollywood/2006/07/krrish_review.shtml
See our Krrish film gallery which shows pictures from this film. Our Bollywood Previews section gives you all the information of forthcoming films coming soon to a cinema near you. Bollywood news gives you all the gossip about the films and their stars. At BBC Shropshire, we have chosen the Top Ten Bollywood movies for this month. These films are well worth a "dekko" at a cinema near you. Our Bollywood film section has all the information you need, including a guide to local cinema, previews and reviews on the latest releases. Visit our Film Vault if you want to get a low down on all Bollywood releases for the past year. Be the first to see our Bollywood Picture Gallery which displays the images of films as they release at your local cinema. Why not take a look at our Bollywood Buzz which gives you links to pictures of current events and parties taking place in Bollywood. HAVE YOUR SAY Get it off your chest on our Bolly messageboard. Or you can personally contact our Bollywood film specialist, Manish Gajjar, who maintains our Bollywood section at BBC Shropshire: manish.gajjar@bbc.co.uk  After being enthralled by super heroes like Superman, Batman, Spiderman and Harry Potter, it was high time that Indian films entered into the arena of science fiction and technical wizardry - and Krrish does just that! Taking off from where Koi Mil Gaya left off, Krrish opens with the late Rohit's son Krishna being taken care off by his grandmother, Rekha. Rekha soon realises that Krishna too has the super powers that an alien had passed onto her son Rohit. Fearing exploitation at the hands of the evil and selfish ones, she takes a super intelligent and powerful Krishna away from human civilization - somewhere unknown. Krishna grows up amongst the plants, trees animals, fishes and mountains but soon realises that his super powers also make him stand out among his friends, often alienating him. He yearns for a normal life, not one where he can fly and run faster than any bird or animal. At this point in time, enters Priya (Priyanka Chopra), an adventure tourist from Singapore. Krishna saves her life and falls in love with her. Priya leaves for Singapore, but using her false charms, lures Krishna for exploitation on a television show. But Krishna, who goes to Singapore, refuses to swallow the bait. Slowly, she falls in love with him. Meanwhile, Krishna, uses his powers to save people during a circus performance. He hides his true identity by using a a mask - the masked man becomes known as Krrish to the Singapore population. But thats not where this action packed film ends. Krrish discovers that his father has been destroyed by the evil, megalomaniac Dr. Arya (Naseerudin Shah), a scientist who wants to control human destiny. So the final forty minutes or so of the film revolve around the clash between evil and good. The film has excellent special effects, on par with the best from Hollywood. Of the cast, Hritik lives and breathes his role, displaying helplessness, anger, determination and romance with equal versatility.Here indeed, is an actor par excellence. Priyanka supports well while Rekha and Naseerudin are ever dependable. The music, except for the Dil Na Diya song, is mundane. The film, which is already proving to be one of the biggest money-spinners, not only in the UK cinemas but also around the world, is too good to miss.